  We inspect and remove abandoned vehicles from the streets of Coventry. It is illegal to abandon a vehicle and we class an abandoned vehicle as one that has been left by the owner / registered keeper  with no intention to recover or accept responsibility for it. We have a duty to remove an abandoned vehicle. Trailers and caravans that would normally be attached to a vehicle can also be classed as abandoned vehicles. 
 Any bruising to a baby - pre-walking stage Multiple bruising to different parts of the body Bruising of different colours, showing repeated injuries Fingertip-shaped bruising to the chest, back, arms or legs Burns of any shape or size An injury for which there is no proper explanation Something a child has told you Something a child has told someone else A child who shows worrying sexualised behaviour in their play or with other children A child who seems to have unsuitable sexual knowledge for their age A child who may be visiting or being looked after by a known or suspected sexual offender Children whose behaviour is excessive. For example, excessive bedwetting, overeating, rocking, headbanging. Children who self harm. For example, they may cut or scratch themselves or overdose. Children who attempt suicide Children who persistently run away from home Children who show high levels of anxiety, unhappiness or withdrawal Children who usually seek out or avoid affection. Squalid, unhygienic or dangerous home conditions Parents who fail to attend to their children's health or development needs Children who appear persistently undersized or underweight Children who continually appear tired or lacking in energy Children who suffer frequent injuries due to lack of supervision. Call Childline on 0800 1111 Call the NSPCC Helpline on 0808 800 5000 Check Coventry CSCP procedures  We all have a responsibility to make sure children and young people are safe from harm or abuse. If you have any suspicion, or information, suggesting a child is being harmed, don't ignore it. You can always ask for advice if you are not sure about a situation. The information below may help if you think a child or young person is being harmed. The following signs may be present in children whose parents are over-critical and emotionally distant, or who are unable to meet their child's emotional needs: If you wish to report a matter to the police, call 101 and state your concerns.
If you wish to report an emergency matter always dial 999.
Social worker (out of office hours): 024 7683 2222. If there is no immediate danger or you need advice or information, you should call the Multi-Agency Safeguarding Hub on 024 7678 8555. If you want to discuss your concerns or need advice e.g. if you are not sure whether your concerns are justified, you would like more information about issues like confidentiality or you would like to know what happens next (after you have reported your concerns), do one of the following: To make a referral, please complete the multi-agency referral form. Example of a completed multi-agency referral form. The Prevent Duty requires that if there are concerns that an individual may be vulnerable to radicalisation around violent extremism then these concerns need to be shared so that appropriate support is provided in order to safeguard those individuals. A partnership referral form has been prepared to make sure that it is easier to outline and submit the referrals. 
To make a Prevent referral for a child or young person a referral form needs to be completed. Coventry Safeguarding Children Partnership (CSCP) has produced new Right Help Right Time Guidance. The guidance helps practitioners to understand and assess risk consistently and appropriately so that children and families can receive the right help at the right time. It will help professionals to identify the support that a child, young person or family might need and how best this support can be provided. It replaces all previous threshold guidance or levels of need documents. 
 change colours, contrast levels and fonts zoom in up to 300% without the text spilling off the screen navigate most of the website using just a keyboard navigate most of the website using speech recognition software listen to most of the website using a screen reader (including the most recent versions of JAWS, NVDA and VoiceOver) most older PDF documents are not fully accessible to screen reader software live video streams do not have captions you cannot skip to the main content when using a screen reader the image highlighting our online chat availability does not have alt text associated with it. email communications@coventry.gov.uk call 024 7697 8000 Some of our historic PDFs and Word documents. training for staff on how to create accessible pages and documents ongoing monitoring of accessibility issues using automated testing via SiteImprove weekly accessibility reports and schedule of changes  This accessibility statement applies to www.coventry.gov.uk. This website is run by Coventry City Council. We want as many people as possible to be able to use this website. For example, that means you should be able to: We’ve also made the website text as simple as possible to understand. AbilityNet has advice on making your device easier to use if you have a disability. We also have the ReachDeck supportive toolbar enabled. The toolbar provides speech, reading, and translation support tools and makes online content more accessible for people with Dyslexia, Low Literacy, English as a Second Language, and those with mild visual impairments. We know some parts of this website are not fully accessible: If you need information on this website in a different format like accessible PDF, large print, easy read, audio recording or braille: We’ll consider your request and get back to you in 15 working days. We’re always looking to improve the accessibility of this website. If you find any problems not listed on this page or think we’re not meeting accessibility requirements, email our E-Communications team webeditors@coventry.gov.uk. The Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC) is responsible for enforcing the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No. 2) Accessibility Regulations 2018 (the ‘accessibility regulations’). If you’re not happy with how we respond to your complaint, contact the Equality Advisory and Support Service (EASS). Coventry City Council is committed to making its website accessible, in accordance with the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No. 2) Accessibility Regulations 2018. This website is partially compliant with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines version 2.1 AA standard. The content listed below is non-accessible for the following reasons. The accessibility regulations do not require us to fix PDFs or other documents published before 23 September 2018 if they’re not essential to providing our services. Any new PDFs or Word documents we publish will meet accessibility standards. We do not plan to add captions to live video streams because live video is exempt from meeting the accessibility regulations. We are doing a number of things to improve our website accessibility: This statement was prepared on 10 August 2020. It was last reviewed on 7 September 2023. This website was last tested on 7 September 2023. The test was carried out by SiteImprove which tested all pages within www.coventry.gov.uk. Our current score is 89.1%. The current industry benchmark for Government sites is 87.5%. 
 Statement of Accounts for 2020-21 (Draft) – subject to audit and public inspection. Public inspection notice You can also download the Statement of Accounts for previous years.  The Council's Statement of Accounts is prepared in accordance with the Code of Practice on local authority accounting in the United Kingdom. Delays in the completion of the audit of previous years’ accounts, most notably in relation to 2019-20, has had implications for the following years. The Council has published its 2020-21 draft accounts, see above, and is currently preparing the accounts for 2021-22, 2022-23 and 2023-24. Once completed, these accounts will also be published in draft form and will then be available for public inspection and be subject to audit. 
 Council Tax Electoral roll Housing benefit and Council Tax support Libraries  When you move home you will need to contact some or all of the following departments to update your address details: 
 enquiries@aceadoption.com 0300 369 0556 Follow us on Home Categories
SupportResourcesEventsFamiliesReal life storiesSteps to adoptionSupport for adoptive familiesSupport for adopted young peopleTraining First-hand information about the children who need families gained through our close working relationships with 5 local authority Children’s Services We are committed to fostering for adoption, an arrangement whereby children may be living with their adoptive parents on a fostering basis in the first instance. This means that children can often live with their prospective adoptive parents from a very young age without having to move between families ACE is the only DDP certified adoption service in the world! This means that we embrace the principles and practices of Dyadic Developmental Psychotherapy (DDP).          © ACE Adoption. All rights reserved. Design: HTML5 UP Privacy policy | Disclaimer | Accessibility | Contact us | Update cookies preferences    Launched on 1 February 2018, ACE has been a regional adoption agency for the local authority areas of Coventry, Herefordshire, Solihull, Warwickshire, and Worcestershire for more than 5 years. Our central purpose is finding the right families for children needing permanent homes through adoption and our overarching aim is to provide a relationship-focussed service for children, adoptive families and others affected by adoption. We achieve this by offering lifelong support, based on up-to-date practices and interventions, supported by modern technology We aim to recognise and value people’s differences and to provide services that are welcoming and respectful. ACE welcomes enquiries about any aspect of adoption from all sections of the community. An established service, ACE has successfully found homes for many children who need families. ACE approves on average 80 adoptive families a year and successfully places in the region of 100-120 children for adoption annually - some will be brothers and sisters who need to stay together. ACE is keen to recruit more families so that children do not have to wait for a family and the best possible ‘family match’ can be found. We believe that there are many advantages to adopting through a regional adoption agency such as ACE. These are: Together we build strong families by promoting adoption as a positive outcome for children who cannot remain in their birth families. Please email enquiries@aceadoption.com if you require further assistance or advice or ring 0300 369 0556.     
  
 Walking, cycling or taking public transport. Make use of the park and ride facilities in Coventry If you use your car try and share the journey with others. Using a car club If you must drive use the eco driving principles choose paints and wood preservatives that are marked as containing low VOC content. avoid having garden bonfires. As well as annoying your neighbours, bonfires release poisonous gases and particulates which add to local air pollution and global warming.  Compost and recycle your garden waste. See our bonfires page for information on composting and the legal action that can be taken for smoke nuisances. Please see the Burnright website for more information about using your fire correctly. This includes advice on choosing the right fuel, what not to burn and how to use your fire or woodburning stove.  Whilst air quality has undoubtedly improved in recent decades, with changing industrial practices and a decline in the use of fossil fuel both domestically and industrially, we still exceed the National Objective for NO2 levels at a number of locations within Coventry. Transport accounts for 49 per cent of UK NO2 emissions in 2016 and the rate of reduction from this sector has slowed down (Nitrogen Dioxide in the United Kingdom Summary, Air Quality Expert Group, 2004). This is due, in part, to the prevalence of diesel vehicles and congestion. View the GHG and energy datasets produced under the National Atmospheric Emissions Inventory. Air pollution adversely affects the health of people at all stages of life, from childhood (including effects on the unborn child in the womb) through to older age. It contributes to the development or exacerbation of a range of health conditions, and is the largest environmental risk to public health, increasing the chances of people needing to access health services, particularly those people with respiratory and cardiovascular illness. Poor air quality affects everyone, especially the young, the old, those with long-term health conditions and those living in more deprived areas. (Air Quality: A Briefing for Directors of Public Health (2017) - DEFRA, Public Health England, Local Government Association). Emissions from various forms of transport are a significant contributor to poor air quality within areas of Coventry, and a city-wide Air Quality Management Area is in place. This page sets out the plans that are being put in place to reduce vehicle emissions to meet the City Council's commitment to improving air quality throughout the city. Air quality within Coventry is monitored by the Council's Environmental Protection Team. In July 2017, the Government published the "United Kingdom Plan for tackling roadside nitrogen dioxide (NO2) concentrations". Within this, Coventry was named as one of 28 towns and cities in England where NO2 levels are forecast to exceed legal limits in 2021. The Council has worked closely with the Government's Joint Air Quality Unit (JAQU) to develop a plan to achieve the legal limits for NO2 within Coventry in the shortest possible time. You can see more detail about this in the Local Air Quality Action Plan page. We are doing lots of things to help improve air quality in the city. You can find out more about each of the initiatives below by clicking on the title links. Segregated cycleways Electric Vehicle Charging Points We have a network of electric vehicle charging points across the city for individuals and businesses Electric fleet first - try before you buy scheme Coventry City Council is gearing up for the start of the Electric Fleet First project. Thanks to funding from Highways England, this will enable us to provide electric vehicles for local organisations to trial. The two-year project will support efforts to reduce NO2 emissions on the local and strategic road network by encouraging businesses to switch to electric vans, pool cars and taxis. Mobility Credits In a national first, Coventry residents with an older, polluting car can exchange their car for £3000 of mobility credits. Very Light Rail Coventry Very Light Rail (VLR) is a research and development project, using the latest automotive expertise developed in the region to deliver an innovative and affordable light rail system. Electric Buses Coventry will be the first city in the country to host all electric buses. The target date is by 2025. Cycling initiatives We have a number of initiatives to help people cycle more. Anyone can make a difference by just making small changes to their everyday routines, The Clean Air Hub has everything you need to know about air pollution in one place. Road traffic is a major source of air pollution in Coventry. You can help reduce this impact by: Further advice is available from the Clear Air Hub website. 
 Walking, cycling or taking public transport. Make use of the park and ride facilities in Coventry If you use your car try and share the journey with others. Using a car club If you must drive use the eco driving principles choose paints and wood preservatives that are marked as containing low VOC content. avoid having garden bonfires. As well as annoying your neighbours, bonfires release poisonous gases and particulates which add to local air pollution and global warming.  Compost and recycle your garden waste. See our bonfires page for information on composting and the legal action that can be taken for smoke nuisances. Please see the Burnright website for more information about using your fire correctly. This includes advice on choosing the right fuel, what not to burn and how to use your fire or woodburning stove.  Whilst air quality has undoubtedly improved in recent decades, with changing industrial practices and a decline in the use of fossil fuel both domestically and industrially, we still exceed the National Objective for NO2 levels at a number of locations within Coventry. Transport accounts for 49 per cent of UK NO2 emissions in 2016 and the rate of reduction from this sector has slowed down (Nitrogen Dioxide in the United Kingdom Summary, Air Quality Expert Group, 2004). This is due, in part, to the prevalence of diesel vehicles and congestion. View the GHG and energy datasets produced under the National Atmospheric Emissions Inventory. Air pollution adversely affects the health of people at all stages of life, from childhood (including effects on the unborn child in the womb) through to older age. It contributes to the development or exacerbation of a range of health conditions, and is the largest environmental risk to public health, increasing the chances of people needing to access health services, particularly those people with respiratory and cardiovascular illness. Poor air quality affects everyone, especially the young, the old, those with long-term health conditions and those living in more deprived areas. (Air Quality: A Briefing for Directors of Public Health (2017) - DEFRA, Public Health England, Local Government Association). Emissions from various forms of transport are a significant contributor to poor air quality within areas of Coventry, and a city-wide Air Quality Management Area is in place. This page sets out the plans that are being put in place to reduce vehicle emissions to meet the City Council's commitment to improving air quality throughout the city. Air quality within Coventry is monitored by the Council's Environmental Protection Team. In July 2017, the Government published the "United Kingdom Plan for tackling roadside nitrogen dioxide (NO2) concentrations". Within this, Coventry was named as one of 28 towns and cities in England where NO2 levels are forecast to exceed legal limits in 2021. The Council has worked closely with the Government's Joint Air Quality Unit (JAQU) to develop a plan to achieve the legal limits for NO2 within Coventry in the shortest possible time. You can see more detail about this in the Local Air Quality Action Plan page. We are doing lots of things to help improve air quality in the city. You can find out more about each of the initiatives below by clicking on the title links. Segregated cycleways Electric Vehicle Charging Points We have a network of electric vehicle charging points across the city for individuals and businesses Electric fleet first - try before you buy scheme Coventry City Council is gearing up for the start of the Electric Fleet First project. Thanks to funding from Highways England, this will enable us to provide electric vehicles for local organisations to trial. The two-year project will support efforts to reduce NO2 emissions on the local and strategic road network by encouraging businesses to switch to electric vans, pool cars and taxis. Mobility Credits In a national first, Coventry residents with an older, polluting car can exchange their car for £3000 of mobility credits. Very Light Rail Coventry Very Light Rail (VLR) is a research and development project, using the latest automotive expertise developed in the region to deliver an innovative and affordable light rail system. Electric Buses Coventry will be the first city in the country to host all electric buses. The target date is by 2025. Cycling initiatives We have a number of initiatives to help people cycle more. Anyone can make a difference by just making small changes to their everyday routines, The Clean Air Hub has everything you need to know about air pollution in one place. Road traffic is a major source of air pollution in Coventry. You can help reduce this impact by: Further advice is available from the Clear Air Hub website. 
 Break drug supply chains Deliver a world class treatment and recovery system Achieve a shift in the demand for drugs Reduce Drug and Alcohol related crimes Reduce Drug and Alcohol supply Reduce overall Drug and Alcohol use Reduce Drug and Alcohol-related harms and deaths Increase engagement in Drug and Alcohol treatment Improve long-term recovery Refer yourself or somebody else to CGL here Refer yourself or somebody else to Positive Choices Here Alcohol Units Alcohol Support Tips on cutting down Alcohol Drinkchat - uses trained professionals from the national alcohol support helpline, Drinkline. You can have a web chat with someone at Drinkchat between 9am-2pm on weekdays. Drinkline – Speak to someone at drinkline on 0300 123 1110 (Weekdays 9am – 8pm, Weekends 11am – 4pm) Heroin Addiction Cocaine Addiction FRANK A-Z of drugs FRANK - Feeling pressured to take drugs? FRANK - Advice for parents and carers who are concerned about a child. For friendly, confidential advice call FRANK 24 hours 7 days a week on 0300 123 6600 or text FRANK 82111.  The National Government published “From Harm to Hope”, which is a 10-year plan to cut crime and save lives by reducing the supply and demand for drugs and delivering a high-quality treatment and recovery system. The plan is aiming to: You can view the full plan at: From harm to hope: A 10-year drugs plan to cut crime and save lives Locally Coventry has its own strategy with our vision for people in Coventry to live their lives free from the harms associated with substance abuse. Our six key priorities are: See the Strategy Summary - Coventry Drug and Alcohol Strategy Summary 2023 - 2033 You can view the full Strategy - Coventry Drug and Alcohol Strategy 2023 - 2033 Drug and Alcohol Support Available in Coventry: Change Grow Live (CGL) Coventry:  Offer information, advice and guidance to anybody who is looking to make a change around their use of Drugs or Alcohol. For more information call CGL on 024 7601 0241 or email them on coventry.info.cgl.org.uk. CGL Coventry is based at 1 Lamb Street, Coventry City Centre, CV1 4AE. Positive Choices Coventry: Coventry’s Young Person’s service supports individuals aged 18 and younger and will offer advice and support around drinking and drugs, relationships, and sexual health. For more information call Positive Choices on 024 7655 3130 or email them on coventryyp.infor@cgl.org.uk Healthy Lifestyles Coventry: Proves advice and coaching for individuals looking at cutting down or stopping drinking alcohol. For more information call HLC on 0800 122 3780 or email them on info@hlscoventry.org. HLS Coventry is based on the 2nd Floor, John Sinclair House, Canal Basin, Coventry CV1 4LY. Wider Information and Advice for Alcohol: NHS Alcohol Advice – Advice and support for reducing the amount of alcohol you drink. Drinkaware - Help with learning about the impact of alcohol on you, your family or friends Alcoholics Anonymous - AA is focused solely on the persona; recovery and continued sobriety of individual alcoholics who turn to the fellowship for help. If you need help with a drinking problem either phone the national helpline on 08—9177 650 or email help@aamail.org Wider Information and Advice for Drug Use: NHS Drug Addiction: Getting Help – If you need treatment for a drug addiction, you’re entitled to NHS care in the same way as anyone else who has a health problem. Adfam - Adfam is a national charity who are tackling the negative effects of drugs and alcohol on family members and friends. FRANK – Friendly, confidential drugs advice. FRANK is a national drug education service, and it aims to reduce the abuse of all drug use. It provides the facts and figures to adults and young people about the harms of drug use. 
 Break drug supply chains Deliver a world class treatment and recovery system Achieve a shift in the demand for drugs Reduce Drug and Alcohol related crimes Reduce Drug and Alcohol supply Reduce overall Drug and Alcohol use Reduce Drug and Alcohol-related harms and deaths Increase engagement in Drug and Alcohol treatment Improve long-term recovery Refer yourself or somebody else to CGL here Refer yourself or somebody else to Positive Choices Here Alcohol Units Alcohol Support Tips on cutting down Alcohol Drinkchat - uses trained professionals from the national alcohol support helpline, Drinkline. You can have a web chat with someone at Drinkchat between 9am-2pm on weekdays. Drinkline – Speak to someone at drinkline on 0300 123 1110 (Weekdays 9am – 8pm, Weekends 11am – 4pm) Heroin Addiction Cocaine Addiction FRANK A-Z of drugs FRANK - Feeling pressured to take drugs? FRANK - Advice for parents and carers who are concerned about a child. For friendly, confidential advice call FRANK 24 hours 7 days a week on 0300 123 6600 or text FRANK 82111.  The National Government published “From Harm to Hope”, which is a 10-year plan to cut crime and save lives by reducing the supply and demand for drugs and delivering a high-quality treatment and recovery system. The plan is aiming to: You can view the full plan at: From harm to hope: A 10-year drugs plan to cut crime and save lives Locally Coventry has its own strategy with our vision for people in Coventry to live their lives free from the harms associated with substance abuse. Our six key priorities are: See the Strategy Summary - Coventry Drug and Alcohol Strategy Summary 2023 - 2033 You can view the full Strategy - Coventry Drug and Alcohol Strategy 2023 - 2033 Drug and Alcohol Support Available in Coventry: Change Grow Live (CGL) Coventry:  Offer information, advice and guidance to anybody who is looking to make a change around their use of Drugs or Alcohol. For more information call CGL on 024 7601 0241 or email them on coventry.info.cgl.org.uk. CGL Coventry is based at 1 Lamb Street, Coventry City Centre, CV1 4AE. Positive Choices Coventry: Coventry’s Young Person’s service supports individuals aged 18 and younger and will offer advice and support around drinking and drugs, relationships, and sexual health. For more information call Positive Choices on 024 7655 3130 or email them on coventryyp.infor@cgl.org.uk Healthy Lifestyles Coventry: Proves advice and coaching for individuals looking at cutting down or stopping drinking alcohol. For more information call HLC on 0800 122 3780 or email them on info@hlscoventry.org. HLS Coventry is based on the 2nd Floor, John Sinclair House, Canal Basin, Coventry CV1 4LY. Wider Information and Advice for Alcohol: NHS Alcohol Advice – Advice and support for reducing the amount of alcohol you drink. Drinkaware - Help with learning about the impact of alcohol on you, your family or friends Alcoholics Anonymous - AA is focused solely on the persona; recovery and continued sobriety of individual alcoholics who turn to the fellowship for help. If you need help with a drinking problem either phone the national helpline on 08—9177 650 or email help@aamail.org Wider Information and Advice for Drug Use: NHS Drug Addiction: Getting Help – If you need treatment for a drug addiction, you’re entitled to NHS care in the same way as anyone else who has a health problem. Adfam - Adfam is a national charity who are tackling the negative effects of drugs and alcohol on family members and friends. FRANK – Friendly, confidential drugs advice. FRANK is a national drug education service, and it aims to reduce the abuse of all drug use. It provides the facts and figures to adults and young people about the harms of drug use. 
  Allesley Parish Council is a statutory authority, first tier of local government which represents the interests of Allesley Parish Electors on, for example, community, planning and environmental issues. Meetings are held at 4/6 weekly intervals at 7.45 pm at the Jaguar Sports and Social Club, Fenton Road, Allesley. Notice of meetings is posted on the parish notice board (junction of Oak Lane and Brick Hill Lane, CV5 9DB). Register of Interests The council is affiliated to the Warwickshire and West Midlands Association of Local Councils - their local office is based at Warwick Enterprise Park, Wellesbourne, CV35 9EF.  Tel 01789 472616 enquiries@walc.org.uk For more information contact Jane Chatterton, Clerk to the Parish Council: Email clerk.allesleypc@outlook.com.
Telephone: 07877 559825
Allesley Parish Council website 
  Do you need some good open-air exercise? Interested in gardening? Do you want to grow your own vegetables or flowers and reduce your carbon footprint. If you have answered yes to any of these questions, then an allotment could be for you. Coventry has allotment sites that are rented to local residents. Find locations and plot numbers in the allotment directory. If you would like to apply for a plot or wish to go on the waiting list for a site, please contact Mr D Knight: 07707 871490 between the hours of 9am and 5pm. For any other business, the contact is Covanddistallotments@gmail.com Allotments are not expensive to rent, costing £15 to £46 a year, depending on location and facilities. If you are State pension age, or in receipt of a qualifying benefit, you would be entitled to a Go CV+ discount which would reduce the rental cost even more. Sign up for a Go CV card. 
  All councillors receive a basic allowance for the work they do as a councillor and some receive an additional special responsibility allowance where they have significant additional responsibilities. Councillors can also claim childcare, travel, subsistence and telephone expenses. You can view an annual breakdown of the allowances paid to Coventry City councillors and co-opted members since 2005. The Council is required to appoint an Independent Remuneration Panel to review the Member Allowance Scheme. An Independent Remuneration Panel reviewed the scheme in 2020/21 and made recommendations to Council on 8 December 2020 (see documents for item 61) The decisions can be seen in the minutes from this meeting at item 61. Further information about the current Member Allowances Scheme can be found in part five of the Constitution. 
 Statement of Accounts for 2020-21 (Draft) – subject to audit and public inspection. Public inspection notice You can also download the Statement of Accounts for previous years.  The Council's Statement of Accounts is prepared in accordance with the Code of Practice on local authority accounting in the United Kingdom. Delays in the completion of the audit of previous years’ accounts, most notably in relation to 2019-20, has had implications for the following years. The Council has published its 2020-21 draft accounts, see above, and is currently preparing the accounts for 2021-22, 2022-23 and 2023-24. Once completed, these accounts will also be published in draft form and will then be available for public inspection and be subject to audit. 
 street drinking aggressive begging crackhouses and drug dealers prostitution and kerb crawling groups hanging around rowdy behaviour intimidation and harassment litter, rubbish and fly tipping graffiti noisy and nuisance neighbours abandoned vehicles dog fouling other environmental issues  Anti-social behaviour can ruin the quality of life in neighbourhoods. It includes a range of selfish and inconsiderate behaviour - sometimes criminal - and includes: If you believe that a criminal act is taking place as part of this behaviour you should report this to West Midlands Police Many other acts of anti-social behaviour (ASB) can be considered as environmental issues/crime and can include: 
  Coventry contains an exceptional range of archaeological remains dating from the prehistoric period to the 20th century. Coventry has often suffered from the misconception that much of its history was lost in the Blitz of the Second World War and to the redevelopment that followed, but this is not true. Archaeological work undertaken as part of new developments has shown the extent and significance of surviving archaeological remains in the City, even in intensively developed areas. Archaeological remains are non-renewable and it is therefore essential that they are properly safeguarded - in line with government guidance, the Council's own policies, and recognised best practice - without preventing or discouraging the regeneration, which is essential to Coventry's future. Some archaeological sites in Coventry are protected by law as scheduled monuments, work is not permitted on these sites without the consent of the secretary of state. Archaeological remains can play a positive role in regeneration, providing a context for future development, whilst they can also be an asset to local communities for education, tourism and leisure. 
  Coventry Archives consists of the archives and Local Records Office and is a treasure trove of information on the history of Coventry and its citizens from medieval times to the present. The huge range of original documents includes books, maps, newspapers, electoral registers and building plans. Photographs, oral history, microfilms and internet sources provide further evidence of the history of the city and the people who have lived here. Whether you're researching for school or college projects, university dissertations, family history or just want to know more about the history of your house, the Coventry Archives is an invaluable free resource and an essential destination. Visit the Coventry Archives' website for more information. 
  The Armed Forces Community Covenant was developed and signed in June 2012 by a range of statutory agencies, voluntary and military charities in support of the national Armed Forces Covenant. These agencies have formed a partnership to progress the Covenant across the Coventry, Solihull and Warwickshire sub-region. The partnership is chaired and led by Warwickshire County Council and has both strategic and operational (co-ordination) level groups. Coventry City Council, Solihull Borough Council and Warwickshire County Council are represented and participate in both these groups with a variety of organisations from across the sub-region and is known as the CSW Armed Forces Covenant Partnership. The Armed Forces Covenant recognises that the whole nation has a moral obligation to members of the armed forces and their families, and it establishes how they should expect to be treated. The covenant exists to redress the disadvantages that the armed forces community may face in comparison to other citizens, and to recognise sacrifices made. The Armed Forces Covenant is supported by the Community Covenant. The Armed Forces Community Covenant is a voluntary statement of mutual support between a civilian community and its local Armed Forces Community and encourages local communities to support the armed forces community in their area and promote public understanding and awareness. The covenant has established a working group which includes representation from armed forces units, military welfare and veteran support agencies and charities and local authorities. The practical actions of the covenant will be coordinated, managed and monitored by this group. Ideas that support the military community and encourage wider community integration can be developed by anyone or any organisation, for example, sharing experience, knowledge and exchanging examples of good practice and goodwill are welcome. Further information about the CSW Armed Forces Covenant Partnership can be found on the Warwickshire County Council website. 
 double bagged or wrapped in heavy duty plastic sheeting not sticking out from the packaging no more than 6.5 feet (2 metres) x 3.2 feet (1 metres) kept damp  More information on controlled waste, including: No more than 6 sacks (or equivalent) per month. The asbestos must be: Anyone who has not adequately packaged their asbestos, will be asked to wrap it before being allowed to dispose of it You are not permitted to break up asbestos on site. Small numbers of plasterboard sheets from home DIY can be disposed of at the Household Recycling and Disposal Centre (the tip). This service is for householders only. If there is any doubt about the origin of the waste you are bringing, you may be required to sign a disclaimer note, or you could be denied access. About household clinical waste disposal For more information about specific items and quantities please see our A-Z of rubbish and recycling. 
  
 the Council's Internal and External Audit functions the Council's accounts the Council's "whistleblowing" and anti-fraud and anti-corruption policies the monitoring of the development and operation of the Council's risk management arrangements Dates, times and location of meetings Membership of the Audit and Procurement Committee Watch upcoming and previous meetings on YouTube  The Council first appointed an Audit Committee in May 2009. The Committee reports directly to the full Council. The membership of the Committee must reflect the political make-up of the Council and does not include Cabinet Members. Although its members can also be members of Scrutiny Boards, the Chair and Deputy Chair must not be the Chair or Deputy Chair of a Scrutiny Board. The Committee considers issues relating to: 
 Please do not touch or feed any birds, or touch feathers or bird droppings in public spaces. Please report dead wild birds you find in a public space, but stay away from them. When visiting open spaces such as parks, please keep dogs on a short lead to avoid contact with sick or dead birds. If you find a dead bird on your private property, please report and dispose of it in your general waste following these instructions. It is now a legal requirement for all bird keepers in Coventry to keep their birds housed and follow strict biosecurity measures, regardless of type of bird or size of flock. sudden and rapid increase in the number of birds found dead closed and watery eyes unresponsiveness incoordination and loss of balance drooping of the wings and/or dragging of legs twisting of the head and neck. if possible, wear disposable protective gloves when picking up and handling dead wild birds (if disposable gloves are not available, a plastic bag can be used as a make-shift glove). When the dead wild bird has been picked up, the bag can be turned back on itself and tied, enclosing the dead wild bird within the bag the bag containing the dead wild bird should then be placed in a second plastic bag (preferably leak proof). Care should be taken not to contaminate the outside of the bag remove any gloves or other hand coverings used, by turning them inside out and then place them in the second plastic bag, taking care not to touch the outside of the gloves with bare hands tie the second bag closed and dispose of in the normal household waste (general refuse lidded bin outside) wash hands thoroughly with soap and water. the dead wild bird can be buried, but not in a plastic bag the depth of the burial hole must be sufficient to prevent animals scavenging and gaining access to it – at least 60cm deep is advised and the location must not be near any watercourses, or likely to contaminate local water supplies if possible do not use your hands to move the bird wear disposable protective gloves when picking up and handling any dead wild birds (if disposable gloves are not available, a plastic bag can be used as a make-shift glove) dispose of any gloves or other hand coverings in a bag (preferably leak proof), being careful not to touch the outside of the gloves or other hand covering with your bare hands tie the second bag closed and dispose of in the normal household waste (general refuse lidded bin outside) wash hands thoroughly with soap and water  The Department for the Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra) and the Animal and Plant Health Agency (APHA) has confirmed there have been cases of avian flu or bird flu in wild birds such as geese throughout the UK. If you wish to report a dead bird, please call the Customer Service Line at Coventry City Council on 08085 834333 or report dead wild birds online. Bird flu is a virus that affects birds, including wild birds such as geese, swans, birds of prey, pigeons and poultry. As with other viruses, there are lots of different strains of the bird flu virus. The current outbreak seen in the UK can cause severe disease and death in birds. It is spread from bird to bird through contact and through droppings. Wild birds are often more resistant to bird flu than domestic birds and can carry and spread the virus without showing symptoms. Human infections with bird flu are rare and the risk to the general public is very low. However, some strains of the virus, have been associated with human disease. This is why we are encouraging people not to have close contact with dead, sick or injured birds. Of all the reported cases in humans worldwide, almost all have been associated with extremely close contact with infected birds (dead or alive). Close contact includes touching infected birds; contact with droppings; killing or preparing infected birds for cooking; inhalation of feather dust. Bird flu is not transmitted through properly cooked food. Cooked poultry and eggs are safe to eat in areas where outbreaks have occurred. Your health is very important. Please do not approach or touch any dead, ill or injured bird. If you are walking with your dog, keep your dog away from the infected bird. Please do not take an injured bird to the Coventry RSPCA branch or a vet. If you find a dead bird, please report any dead wild birds online or through the Customer Service line on 08085 834333. Someone from the team will attend the park or public place you have identified to remove the bird(s). If the public space is not owned by Coventry City Council, we will forward the information you provided for them to remove the bird. If you find small numbers of dead garden birds at your home you can dispose of them in your household waste bin, or you can bury them. For disposing or burying garden birds you can follow the advice given by the UK Government. You can report small numbers of dead garden birds to Garden Wildlife Health. If you find a dead bird of prey, for example a hawk, or a large number of dead garden birds, for example 5 or more of the same species, you can report this to the Animal and Plant Health Agency. Gardens are really important places for our birds.  Bird flu is predominantly being reported in bird species that are not commonly found in gardens, so the risk to you from wild birds is very small. There is no need to deter birds from coming to your garden. To minimise the risk further, if you see sick or dead birds, do not touch them, their droppings, or any water nearby and clean the birdfeeder and water features when you can. If you see a baby bird (fledgling) in your garden, leave it to its own devices. Its parents are almost certainly nearby and will look after it. If you came into contact with a bird with potential avian flu, please monitor for any flu-like symptoms such as fever and congestion. Please read the NHS website for further details. If your domestic animals (cats or dogs) go outside and could potentially eat sick or dead birds infected with bird flu viruses, there is a small chance they could be infected with bird flu. While it’s unlikely that you would get sick with bird flu through direct contact with your infected pet, it is possible. If your pet is showing signs of illness (such as fever, panting, lethargy) compatible with bird flu virus infection and has been exposed to infected (sick or dead) wild birds/poultry, you should monitor your pet’s health for signs of fever or infection and contact your veterinarian. It is now a legal requirement for all bird keepers in Coventry to keep their birds housed and follow strict biosecurity measures. This is regardless of type of bird or size of flock. Biosecurity measures and how to prevent bird flu from spreading on the GOV.UK website. If you keep poultry or a large number of captive birds, we encourage you to notify our Trading Standards Team by emailing tradingstandards@coventry.gov.uk  If the information received from the Animal Plant Health Authority (APHA) changes the team will contact you by email. If you are concerned about the health of your birds, speak to your private vet. If you suspect bird flu, you or your vet must report it immediately to the Animal and Plant Health Agency (APHA) even if the signs are mild. Report this immediately by calling APHA on 03000 200 301 How to maintain welfare whilst your birds are housed. Birds of prey or other species trained to fly, such as racing pigeons. 
 Application process How to use the application system Eligibility criteria Start-up grant frequently asked questions  This is a brief introduction to what is involved in becoming a registered childminder in Coventry. You need to pay your Council Tax to Coventry City Council to access direct support from the Early Years Service to help you through the registration process and beyond. It is a legal requirement that childminders have sufficient understanding and use of English to ensure the wellbeing of the children in their care. As a registered childminder you will look after one or more children under the age of 8 years, for more than a total of two hours a day, in your own home, for payment. Childminders may care for a maximum of six children under the age of eight at any one time. Of these six children, a maximum of three may be young children, and there should only be one child under the age of one. You will work to various legal requirements and be inspected by Ofsted to ensure you provide a safe and stimulating environment for the children that you care for. The Statutory Framework is standards that childminders must meet for the learning, development, and care of children from birth to 5. You will be self-employed and running your own business. Hours are flexible and you can work full or part-time depending on your family commitments. The first step is to watch this informative video which outlines the process and the next steps on how to register as a childminder. If you wish to proceed to the next step, you will need to contact the Coventry Early Years Service using the contact details at the end of the video.  The Childminder Start-up Grant Scheme is now open for applications. The scheme will support new childminders by providing them with grant funding, helping childminders with the cost of setting up their own businesses. The Childminder Start-up Grants Scheme will be available to all new childminders who have completed their registration on or after 15 March 2023. Individuals who have previously been registered as childminders and wish to re-register into the sector may also apply for the scheme. There must be at least a 12-month gap between the date of the previous registration being cancelled and the new registration being finalised. 
 their name their address the type of fraud you think they’re committing living in Northern Ireland living somewhere else but you think they’re committing benefits fraud against benefits and payments made by the Department for Communities in Northern Ireland  Report someone you think is committing benefit fraud. This page is also available in Welsh (Cymraeg). Give as much information as you can about the person you’re reporting. This could include: You can make a report anonymously - you do not have to give your name or contact details unless you want to. There are different ways to report fraud against benefits and payments made by Social Security Scotland. The Department for Work and Pensions Fraud and Error Service will look at the information you give. They will not be able to tell you the outcome of their investigation. The Fraud and Error Service will only take action if they find the person has been committing benefit fraud. Action can include removing a person’s benefits and taking them to court. Sometimes no action is taken. The person may have declared a change in their circumstances or their benefit may not be affected by what you report. You can also report benefit fraud by phone or post. Telephone: 0800 854 440 
Textphone: 0800 328 0512 
British Sign Language (BSL) video relay service if you’re on a computer - find out how to use the service on mobile or tablet
Welsh Telephone: 0800 678 3722    
Monday to Friday, 8am to 6pm 
Find out about call charges Mail Handling Site A  
Wolverhampton  
WV98 2BP You can use the Northern Ireland Benefit Fraud Hotline to report people: Telephone: 0800 975 6050
Monday to Friday, 9am to 4pm
Find out about call charges Report benefit fraud of the War Pension Scheme or Armed Forces Compensation Scheme to the Ministry of Defence Fraud Team. You can make a report anonymously - you do not have to give your name or contact details unless you want to. You can report by phone or post. Telephone: 0800 3457 471
Monday to Friday, 7am to 3pm
Find out about call charges FREEPOST NAT18006  
Norcross  
Thornton Cleveleys  
FY5 3ZZ Use the local number if you’re calling from Spain. Telephone: 900 55 44 40
Monday to Friday, 8am to 4pm local time (GMT +2)
Find out about call charges 
  Coventry Bereavement Services will support you and your family when planning a funeral either for burial or cremation. This can be in person or by phone, our staff are highly trained, conscientious, caring and sensitive to your requirements. We will take as much time as you need to make sure we look after you and your family at such a difficult time. We can advise you how to arrange a funeral without the use of a funeral director if desired, along with assisting you to complete the legal documentation required. Guidance can also be supplied on how to register the death of a loved one. Our experienced staff can advise you regarding the facilities available at each cemetery if burial is your choice. We have various options for graves giving families a choice. When booking a cremation, we can assist you with any enquiries you may have regarding seating numbers in the chapels, our music facilities, disabled access or requirements and any other questions you may. We are members of the ICCM (Institute of Cemetery and Crematorium Management) and members of the National Metals Recycling Scheme. We are also signed up to the ICCM Charter for the Bereaved, the charter sets out the standard of service you can expect from us and your rights. We also offer a varied range of memorialisation options based within the Gardens of Remembrance and commemorative benches. All of these can be discussed with us at a time to suit yourself should you wish to arrange a leased tribute for your loved one. Please do not hesitate to contact us at Bereavement Services if we can be of any assistance to you. 
 If you are asking for a blue-lidded bin (recycling), please use your green-lidded bin (rubbish) for any recycling while you are waiting for delivery If you are asking for a brown-lidded bin (food and garden waste), please take any waste to the Household Recycling and Reuse Centre (the tip) while you are waiting for delivery If you are asking for a green-lidded bin (rubbish), we aim to deliver these as a priority. You can also book a trip to the tip if you have excess waste.  We provide bin repair/replacement where your bin has been broken or stolen. We aim to repair bins, instead of replacing them, where possible. The delivery of a new bin is running behind schedule. It usually takes 8 to 10 weeks. We apologise for the delay and will deliver the requested bins as soon as possible. For green-lidded bins (rubbish) we aim to deliver these as a priority. If you are a developer or are building a new property, please download the Waste Storage Technical Advice Note. Request a new bin, a bin repair/replacement or bin removal 
 Please do not touch or feed any birds, or touch feathers or bird droppings in public spaces. Please report dead wild birds you find in a public space, but stay away from them. When visiting open spaces such as parks, please keep dogs on a short lead to avoid contact with sick or dead birds. If you find a dead bird on your private property, please report and dispose of it in your general waste following these instructions. It is now a legal requirement for all bird keepers in Coventry to keep their birds housed and follow strict biosecurity measures, regardless of type of bird or size of flock. sudden and rapid increase in the number of birds found dead closed and watery eyes unresponsiveness incoordination and loss of balance drooping of the wings and/or dragging of legs twisting of the head and neck. if possible, wear disposable protective gloves when picking up and handling dead wild birds (if disposable gloves are not available, a plastic bag can be used as a make-shift glove). When the dead wild bird has been picked up, the bag can be turned back on itself and tied, enclosing the dead wild bird within the bag the bag containing the dead wild bird should then be placed in a second plastic bag (preferably leak proof). Care should be taken not to contaminate the outside of the bag remove any gloves or other hand coverings used, by turning them inside out and then place them in the second plastic bag, taking care not to touch the outside of the gloves with bare hands tie the second bag closed and dispose of in the normal household waste (general refuse lidded bin outside) wash hands thoroughly with soap and water. the dead wild bird can be buried, but not in a plastic bag the depth of the burial hole must be sufficient to prevent animals scavenging and gaining access to it – at least 60cm deep is advised and the location must not be near any watercourses, or likely to contaminate local water supplies if possible do not use your hands to move the bird wear disposable protective gloves when picking up and handling any dead wild birds (if disposable gloves are not available, a plastic bag can be used as a make-shift glove) dispose of any gloves or other hand coverings in a bag (preferably leak proof), being careful not to touch the outside of the gloves or other hand covering with your bare hands tie the second bag closed and dispose of in the normal household waste (general refuse lidded bin outside) wash hands thoroughly with soap and water  The Department for the Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra) and the Animal and Plant Health Agency (APHA) has confirmed there have been cases of avian flu or bird flu in wild birds such as geese throughout the UK. If you wish to report a dead bird, please call the Customer Service Line at Coventry City Council on 08085 834333 or report dead wild birds online. Bird flu is a virus that affects birds, including wild birds such as geese, swans, birds of prey, pigeons and poultry. As with other viruses, there are lots of different strains of the bird flu virus. The current outbreak seen in the UK can cause severe disease and death in birds. It is spread from bird to bird through contact and through droppings. Wild birds are often more resistant to bird flu than domestic birds and can carry and spread the virus without showing symptoms. Human infections with bird flu are rare and the risk to the general public is very low. However, some strains of the virus, have been associated with human disease. This is why we are encouraging people not to have close contact with dead, sick or injured birds. Of all the reported cases in humans worldwide, almost all have been associated with extremely close contact with infected birds (dead or alive). Close contact includes touching infected birds; contact with droppings; killing or preparing infected birds for cooking; inhalation of feather dust. Bird flu is not transmitted through properly cooked food. Cooked poultry and eggs are safe to eat in areas where outbreaks have occurred. Your health is very important. Please do not approach or touch any dead, ill or injured bird. If you are walking with your dog, keep your dog away from the infected bird. Please do not take an injured bird to the Coventry RSPCA branch or a vet. If you find a dead bird, please report any dead wild birds online or through the Customer Service line on 08085 834333. Someone from the team will attend the park or public place you have identified to remove the bird(s). If the public space is not owned by Coventry City Council, we will forward the information you provided for them to remove the bird. If you find small numbers of dead garden birds at your home you can dispose of them in your household waste bin, or you can bury them. For disposing or burying garden birds you can follow the advice given by the UK Government. You can report small numbers of dead garden birds to Garden Wildlife Health. If you find a dead bird of prey, for example a hawk, or a large number of dead garden birds, for example 5 or more of the same species, you can report this to the Animal and Plant Health Agency. Gardens are really important places for our birds.  Bird flu is predominantly being reported in bird species that are not commonly found in gardens, so the risk to you from wild birds is very small. There is no need to deter birds from coming to your garden. To minimise the risk further, if you see sick or dead birds, do not touch them, their droppings, or any water nearby and clean the birdfeeder and water features when you can. If you see a baby bird (fledgling) in your garden, leave it to its own devices. Its parents are almost certainly nearby and will look after it. If you came into contact with a bird with potential avian flu, please monitor for any flu-like symptoms such as fever and congestion. Please read the NHS website for further details. If your domestic animals (cats or dogs) go outside and could potentially eat sick or dead birds infected with bird flu viruses, there is a small chance they could be infected with bird flu. While it’s unlikely that you would get sick with bird flu through direct contact with your infected pet, it is possible. If your pet is showing signs of illness (such as fever, panting, lethargy) compatible with bird flu virus infection and has been exposed to infected (sick or dead) wild birds/poultry, you should monitor your pet’s health for signs of fever or infection and contact your veterinarian. It is now a legal requirement for all bird keepers in Coventry to keep their birds housed and follow strict biosecurity measures. This is regardless of type of bird or size of flock. Biosecurity measures and how to prevent bird flu from spreading on the GOV.UK website. If you keep poultry or a large number of captive birds, we encourage you to notify our Trading Standards Team by emailing tradingstandards@coventry.gov.uk  If the information received from the Animal Plant Health Authority (APHA) changes the team will contact you by email. If you are concerned about the health of your birds, speak to your private vet. If you suspect bird flu, you or your vet must report it immediately to the Animal and Plant Health Agency (APHA) even if the signs are mild. Report this immediately by calling APHA on 03000 200 301 How to maintain welfare whilst your birds are housed. Birds of prey or other species trained to fly, such as racing pigeons. 
  In England or Wales, all births must be registered within 42 days of the baby being born. The birth should be registered in the district where the baby was born. If the baby was born in Coventry then you can make an appointment online to register the birth. Due to COVID-19 it will be unlikely that you will get an appointment within 42 days of the birth, under the current circumstances it is acceptable to book the first available appointment. If the baby was born in Coventry but you cannot get to Coventry to register the birth then you can see a registrar in another district. The registrar will record the details on a form of declaration and send it to the registrar for the district where the birth took place. They will then enter the details in the birth register. If you live outside the Coventry area in Warwickshire only but your baby was born in Coventry you will be able to register their birth at your local Warwickshire Register Office. You can find details of your nearest Register Office on the Warwickshire County Council website. You don’t need to bring the baby to the registry office to show that the birth has taken place. The local health authority or the hospital where the birth took place will notify the registrar of the birth. Certificates of the birth will be posted by the registrar for the district where the birth took place. If you are planning to apply for a passport for your child, the Passport Agency will need a 'full' birth certificate which includes the parents' names. These certificates are available after registration by ordering online or over the telephone on 024 7683 3141. You can buy as many as you want. The certificate fee is £11.00. Coventry Register Office runs an appointment system for registration. You can make an appointment online or you can call us to make an appointment. 
 The full copy certificate will include both the original name and the new name given in baptism. The short version certificate will only record the child's amended baptismal forename(s). The full copy certificate will contain both the original name and the new name. The short version certificate will only record the child's amended forename.  If you decide to change your child's first name(s) within 12 months of the date of the birth being registered, you can do so on the original birth registration. If the child has been baptised in the Christian faith within 12 months of being registered you can get a form from the Register Office to take to the Minister of the Church where the child was baptised. Once this form has been completed it needs to be returned to the Register Office and the new names can be added. This process can be done at any time after the birth as long as the baptism took place within 12 months of the registration. You can then buy certified copies from this new registration. If the child has not been baptised the parents can complete a form at the Register Office. Once again this can be done at any time after the birth as long as it can be proved that the change of name took place within 12 months of the birth being registered. Once the form has been completed the amended name(s) will be added to the original birth registration. Certified copies of the amended registration can then be bought. The cost to change your child's first name(s) will be £40. 
  Waste water pipes that are located within the boundary of your property - beneath your house, garden or driveway which take away the waste water flows from only your property, to the point where they connect to pipes serving another property - are your responsibility. Severn Trent Water Ltd are responsible for the large sewers that are normally under the road or pavement. Due to a change in law, in October 2011, the sections of sewers and pipe that you share with neighbours and pipes outside your property boundary, which connect to the existing sewers, are now the responsibility of Severn Trent Water Ltd. If you are uncertain if any blockage is in a public or private sewer, Severn Trent Water Ltd should be able to determine this. They can be contacted on 0800 783 4444, or through http://www.stwater.co.uk/. In order to follow up any sewer enquiries, please take note of the reference number provided by Severn Trent Water Ltd. Please also be aware that if the water company undertake any work on the private sewer, the cost of the works will be charged to you. Please see the Sandbag Policy for information about flood protection. 
  Apply for a blue badge You may require an eligibility assessment following your application and all successful applications incur a £10 charge. You will also need to provide us with any evidence needed to support your application along with a passport style photograph. Once your application has been approved, you can pay the £10 fee online. The Blue Badge scheme helps those with severe mobility problems who have difficulty using public transport to park close to where they need to go. This Department for Transport document explains the rights and responsibilities of badge holders. 
 aluminium foil food and drink cans glass bottles newspapers and magazines cardboard - toilet roll tubes cereal boxes junk mail glass jars drink cartons aerosols mixed paper and card mixed glass All household plastic bottles including milk bottles, detergent bottles, toiletry bottles and cleaning product bottles All household plastic food trays including fruit or meat trays All household food pots including yogurt and dessert pots All household food tubs including fresh fruit and meat trays etc. wallpaper lightbulbs broken glass plastic film/bags textiles, clothes and bedding polystyrene cookware such as pots and pans or Pyrex general rubbish shredded paper Plastic plant pots Black plastic Nappies Black bags Food waste capture of the material (by its nature it is small and flies away when moved around making it difficult to capture during the sorting process, which for paper and card is largely done manually) contamination of other materials (for reasons similar to capture) the poor quality of the product (shredding makes the fibres of the paper damaged and unsuitable for future products)  Please note: these pages are for domestic waste collections. For commercial waste please go to our commercial waste pages. Your recycling bin is collected every fortnight - to find out when your collections are, please find your street in our directory. Please put your bin out for collection by 7am at the kerbside with the handles facing the road. Bins should be removed from the highway as soon as possible following collection (maximum 24 hours) and returned to your property. Please note that your bins will not be collected if rubbish is compacted, bin lids can’t close or bins are too heavy to safely be collected. Please do not put plastic bags in your bin. If your bin has not been collected you should have received a bin tag informing you of the reasons why this has happened. If your bin has not been collected and you have not received a bin tag please visit the missed bins page to report it. You can sign up for free email alerts for your street's collection via our bin collection calendar. Download a printable A4 guide to what you can put in your blue-lidded bin. Please see the A-Z of rubbish and recycling if you are unsure of where an item should go. Plastic carrier bags are made from a range of different plastics. The carrier bags can shred during the sorting process and end up in with the wrong type of plastic (contaminating the load). They can also become tangled around the sorting machinery which leads to further problems. Many larger supermarkets have recycling facilities for plastic bags. Shredded paper is not suitable for recycling for a number of reasons including: We would advise residents to only shred the part of the document that contains personal/sensitive information and dispose of this in the green lidded bin, alternatively it can be used for animal bedding or home composting. 
 Only burn dry garden material - wet material produces more smoke and steam Never burn domestic rubbish, furniture, painted wood, tyres or plastics Never add a fuel such as diesel, oil or petrol Make sure having a bonfire will not affect neighbours (check they have windows closed and do not have any washing out to dry) Never have bonfires on damp days or when there is little or no wind as smoke will linger in the air for long periods of time Never have bonfires at weekends or on bank holidays when people are more likely to be enjoying their gardens - be considerate! Do not allow bonfire smoke to blow over a road - this is an offence under the Highways Act 1980. If your neighbours do complain, rake off any unburnt material if safe to do so and smother the fire with soil or sand. Dousing with water can make the problem worse due to the amount of steam that is produced Avoid burning when air pollution in your area is high or very high. This information is included in weather forecasts or on the UK Air Quality Archive website.  There is no law restricting times when you can have a domestic garden bonfire, but it is important to think about your neighbours and other local residents. The Council can take action where smoke from bonfires is causing a statutory nuisance. Just because you can see a garden bonfire or smell smoke does not make it a nuisance - to be a nuisance it must be unreasonably affecting your use or enjoyment of your property. Issues that can play a part in deciding whether it is a nuisance include the size of the fire, the materials being burnt, the weather and the smell. If the Council is satisfied there is a nuisance, then a legal notice will be served to prevent any further nuisances. If nuisances continue and are proved beyond all reasonable doubt then the person responsible may be prosecuted in a Magistrates' Court and fined up to £5,000. If you wish to have a garden bonfire you are advised to follow the guidance below: Report a smoke nuisance using our online form 
 War Memorial Park Coundon Hall Park Sowe Common Whitley Common Longford Park Floyds Fields Adult pitch only: £56.00 Adult pitch and changing room: £75.00 Juniors (12-16 yrs) pitch only: £28.00 Changing Rooms: £33.60  Football pitches are available from the first Saturday in September to the end of April. Due to league commitments, no pitches are available on a Sunday before 1.30pm. We have football pitches available for hire at: To book a pitch for a match please download and fill in the football pitch booking form and then email it to WarMemorialPark@coventry.gov.uk Your booking fee will need to be paid at the War Memorial Park Visitors Centre once your booking has been confirmed. If changing rooms are required there is a returnable key deposit of £25. If you wish to book ten or more games together you will qualify for a discount block booking. Please contact 024 7697 7770 for more information and to block book. 
  The Coventry Inspiration Book Awards have five categories of books to choose from for children and young people aged 4 to 18. Each category has eight books to read and enjoy. You can comment on the books you have read and vote for your favourite one. Find out more about the Coventry Inspiration Book Awards. 
  The new paid-for garden waste (brown-lidded bin) collections will start the week beginning 3 June. You can now apply and pay for the annual £40 charge for your brown-lidded (garden waste) bin collection permit. Register and pay for your brown-lidded bin collection Before registering, please read our terms and conditions. If you have any questions about the service, check our FAQ which may cover your questions. 
  You can find out if a/your house, premises or site has an enforcement notice registered against it either by searching our online enforcement register or using our online map which contains information on all enforcement actions as part of the planning information displayed. Search the register using either the address, or if you know it, the reference number. You can view a copy of the enforcement notice online. 
 Bikes, pushchairs and prams Children's toys and equipment. For example, playhouse, cot, highchair Domestic waste - excess black bag waste. Three black sacks are equal to one individual item. The maximum number of black bags per booking is nine.  Please ensure bags are not over-packed to avoid any spillages. Exercise equipment (excluding running machines) Fridge/freezer - please note we are only able to accept domestic appliances. The maximum combination of fridge/freezers per booking is two, any food items must be removed prior to collection or the item will not be taken. If you have a large double-door fridge/freezer combination, please call customer services to check if the item can be taken due to excessive weight. Home furnishings (excluding mattresses) - please note each set of furniture should be recorded as individual items i.e. a table and four chairs are five items in total. Examples of items include sofa, settee, table, chair, bed base, wardrobe, chest of drawers Garden furniture and small outdoor toys. For example plastic furniture, child's sandpit, swing equipment or ladders (wooden and aluminium) Mattresses - please note we will not take mattresses soiled with bodily fluids. The maximum number of mattresses per booking is two. Small electrical items for example TV, kettle, toaster, lamp. Asbestos Builders rubble (including bricks, concrete, paving slabs and tiles) Clothing Gas cylinders Garden waste or petrol lawnmowers Pianos Liquids or hazardous waste Trampolines Tyres Fixtures and fittings - such as doors, window units, bathroom suites, kitchen units, fireplaces or surrounds and flooring including carpet / laminate Bundles of wood  Working in partnership with Emmaus Coventry and Warwickshire for a small charge, we can collect bulky household waste. Alternatively, you can get rid of these items yourself by taking them to the Household Recycling and Disposal Centre (the tip). Many of these items may be taken to the Household Recycling and Disposal Centre (the tip). For details on the disposal of specific items please see A-Z of rubbish and recycling or contact Customer Services. This service is for households within the boundaries of Coventry City Council only. This service is not available to business and private landlords.  
 between 9.30am and 11pm, Monday to Friday all day at weekends and on public holidays trains in the Blue Zone from 9.30am to 11.59pm trams from 9.30am until the last service of the day travel before 9.30 am parking register your card online Birmingham Coventry Dudley Sandwell Solihull Walsall Wolverhampton apply online download an application form to print out and send in the post a new, passport-style colour photo your full name and address the 16-digit number on the front of your travel pass Businesses Education Job centres Young people Who we are What we do Our strategy Our apps     Accessibility statement Terms and conditions Policies  We use cookies to help you with journey planning and relevant disruptions, remember your login and show you
        content you might be interested in. If you're happy with the use of cookies by West Midlands Combined Authority
        and our selected partners, click 'Accept all cookies'. Or click 'Manage cookies' to learn more. You can get a pass for free bus travel anywhere in England when you reach the female State Pension age. It does not matter if you’re a man or a woman. The pass lets you travel for free during off-peak times: If you live in the West Midlands, you can use your pass on the buses from 9.30am until 11.59pm. You can also get free travel on: If you want to travel before 9.30am, you can get a £1.50 single fare on National Express West Midlands buses. Show your travel pass to the driver and ask for a £1.50 single ticket. If you often travel before 9.30am, you can get a pre-9.30 add-on ticket. Use our ticket finder to find pre-9.30 add-on tickets. You can also use your travel pass as a pay as you go card. This means you can use it to pay for: To use your travel pass as a pay-as-you-go card, you need to either: You can find out if you've reached the age for free bus travel on the GOV.UK website. You can get a West Midlands older person's travel pass if you live in the West Midlands. You must live at a property where council tax is paid to one of these councils: If you do not live in the West Midlands, contact your local authority to apply. You can either: If you apply through the post, send your application to the address on the form. We'll write to you 4 to 6 weeks before your pass expires and tell you how to renew it. If you’ve lost your letter, you can still renew your travel pass online. You should get your new pass 2 weeks before your current one expires. Contact Customer Services if you have not got it by then. Customer Services - Ticketing Telephone: 0345 303 6760 Mondays, Tuesdays, Thursdays and Fridays, 8am to 6pmWednesdays, 10am to 6pmSaturdays, 9am to 1pmClosed Sundays and Bank Holidays You can update your personal details online if your name or address has changed. You can update your photo by email or by post. Send your new photo to Ticketing Services. You'll need to send us: Customer Services - Ticketing
                    Transport for West Midlands
                    16 Summer LaneBirminghamB19 3SD Submit an enquiry Don’t miss out on vital information, subscribe today and be in the know at all times. 
 between 9.30am and 11pm, Monday to Friday all day at weekends and on public holidays trains in the Blue Zone from 9.30am to 11.59pm trams from 9.30am until the last service of the day travel before 9.30 am parking register your card online have an eligible disability that's expected to last at least 12 months are aged 5 or over are registered blind or partially sighted are severely or profoundly deaf in both ears cannot talk cannot walk easily cannot use both arms have a learning disability have a medical condition that means you can't get a UK driving licence Birmingham Coventry Dudley Sandwell Solihull Walsall Wolverhampton Disabled person's travel pass application form Disabled person's travel pass application form - large print Disabled person's travel pass application form - easy read a new, passport-style colour photo your full name and address the 16-digit number on the front of your travel pass Businesses Education Job centres Young people Who we are What we do Our strategy Our apps     Accessibility statement Terms and conditions Policies  We use cookies to help you with journey planning and relevant disruptions, remember your login and show you
        content you might be interested in. If you're happy with the use of cookies by West Midlands Combined Authority
        and our selected partners, click 'Accept all cookies'. Or click 'Manage cookies' to learn more. If you’re disabled, you might be able to get a free bus pass for travel anywhere in England. The pass lets you travel for free during off-peak times: If you live in the West Midlands, you can use your pass on the buses from 9.30am until 11.59pm. You can also get free travel on: If you do not live in the West Midlands, contact your local authority to apply. If you want to travel before 9.30am, you can get a £1.50 single fare on National Express West Midlands buses. Show your travel pass to the driver and ask for a £1.50 single ticket. If you often travel before 9.30 am, you can get a pre-9:30 add-on ticket. Use our ticket finder to find pre-9.30 add-on tickets. If you’re under 18 and have a disabled travel pass, you’ll get a pre-9.30 top-up loaded onto your pass. This happens automatically - you do not need to do anything. The top-up lets you use your pass on the bus before 9.30 am in term time. You can also use your travel pass as a pay-as-you-go card. This means you can use it to pay for the following: To use your travel pass as a pay-as-you-go card, you need to either: You can get a disabled person's travel pass if you: You may be eligible if you: You’ll need to include proof of your disability when you apply. The application form explains how to do this. You can get a West Midlands disabled person's travel pass if you live in the West Midlands. You must live at a property where council tax is paid to one of these councils: Read more about how we check if you're eligible. You can apply for a disabled person's pass online. It's the fastest way to apply and only takes around 15 minutes. You'll need to upload copies of evidence that supports your disability. We'll guide you and let you know what you need to provide for your disability. You can also apply with a paper form: 1. Download one of these application forms: 2. Fill in the form. 3. Send the application and supporting evidence to the address on the form. We’ll write to you around 3 months before your pass expires. Depending on your disability, your pass might be automatically renewed. Or you might have to apply again. Your letter will tell you what to do. You can update your personal details online if your name or address changes. You can update your photo by email or by post. Send your new photo to Customer Services. You'll need to send us: Customer Services - Ticketing
                    Transport for West Midlands
                    16 Summer LaneBirminghamB19 3SD Submit an enquiry  Don’t miss out on vital information, subscribe today and be in the know at all times. 
 The Coventry TeleCareline
	If you would like to request a response alarm, please complete this online form. Fire/Intruder/Panic alarm monitoring and response service
	A first class service provided for public, commercial and private premises. Key holding services
	Let us hold your keys and you can stay in bed when your business alarm rings at 3am. CCTV monitoring
	We monitor a variety of CCTV systems, including Adpro. Our diligent officers can pick up incidents and arrange for the blue light services to attend the incident. Lone working
	Providing peace of mind for lone workers and their managers. Bollard access request.
	To access Broadgate we require 48 hours' notice.  We can provide a variety of products and services to assist with your security solutions. Our services include: In June 2021 we were awarded the Surveillance Camera Commissioners Certification Mark of Compliance.  
 2013/2014 Annual Compliance Report (PDF) 2014/2015 Annual Compliance Report (PDF) 2016/2017 Annual Compliance Report (PDF) 2018/2019 Annual Compliance Report (PDF) 2019/2020 Annual Compliance Report (PDF) 2021/2022 Annual Compliance Report (PDF)  We use RIPA to prevent and detect crime for core functions. For example, enforcement activities undertaken by Trading Standards where an offence may be punishable by a custodial sentence of six months or more, or is related to the under age sale of alcohol and tobacco. Any applications to use such powers have to be approved by the Magistrates' Court. From 1 April 2014, RIPA statistics are published at: 
  Coventry’s SEND Information Advice and Support Service (SENDIASS) offers impartial and confidential Special Educational Needs and Disability information, advice and support for parents/carers, children (0-15yrs) and young people (16-25yrs). You can access a wide amount of information and find out about the range of services on offer through their dedicated websites: The CHYP Shop 
 Dates, times and locations of Cabinet meetings and details of membership. View previous and upcoming meetings broadcast online.  The Council has a Cabinet and Scrutiny system. Each of the 10 Cabinet Members is responsible for one part of the Council’s services. The Cabinet meets every month and Cabinet Members hold individual meetings throughout the year. All these meetings are held in public. Representatives of opposition groups are allowed to attend Cabinet meetings and give their views on matters to be discussed, but are not allowed to vote. There is a maximum of four non-voting members allowed – two from the largest opposition party and then one from each of the next two. 
 Dates, times and locations of Cabinet meetings and details of membership. View previous and upcoming meetings broadcast online.  The Council has a Cabinet and Scrutiny system. Each of the 10 Cabinet Members is responsible for one part of the Council’s services. The Cabinet meets every month and Cabinet Members hold individual meetings throughout the year. All these meetings are held in public. Representatives of opposition groups are allowed to attend Cabinet meetings and give their views on matters to be discussed, but are not allowed to vote. There is a maximum of four non-voting members allowed – two from the largest opposition party and then one from each of the next two. 
 a children's play area suitable for younger children a teen's area with youth shelter a multi-use games area that caters for five-a-side football, basketball, netball and tennis. Walking or jogging trails - map of route  Caludon Castle Park is FREE to enter. It is located three miles to the east of Coventry city centre and it is the Area Park for the South of the city. Although smaller in size than other area parks, it offers a valued green space experience for local people. The site contains two scheduled ancient monuments by English Heritage, including the remains of Caludon Castle which is Grade 1 listed. The park is accessed by vehicles off Farren Road via the St George and the Dragon inspired entrance gates, along a causeway to the recently re-furbished public car park. The park is informally divided into zones including sport and play to the east and the historical features to the west and north. The Park is annually entered for a Green Flag Award. This is a nationally recognised award given to parks that, when externally assessed, meet or exceed some eight criteria set by the Awards Body. These criteria include how the park is managed, community involvement and sustainability. The Park has been awarded a Green Flag for the last three years. Recent Improvements to the Park include the entrance gates, refurbished drive way and car park and a new play area. There is a Friends group for the park. The weather has finally decided that it is winter, all be it a fairly mild one so far. We have seasons because the earth is tilted (wonky) as it makes its yearly journey around the sun. The Earth's axis is tilted at 23.5 degrees, this means the Earth is always pointing to one side as we go around the sun. We lean towards the Sun in the summer and away from the Sun in the winter. This means with shorter days and longer nights the Earth has less chance to heat up leading to colder weather generally. Some species are still feeding and building up fat ready to survive the colder months to come. Because it has been mild you may have seen Autumn Juvenile hedgehogs still foraging, if feeding them please feed dog or cat food, not bread and milk as this can cause diarrhoea. Hedgehogs numbers are declining nationally. There are many reasons for this, More intensive agriculture – with larger fields and the loss of hedgerows and permanent grassland – has probably played a role. The use of pesticides too reduces the amount of prey available. In towns and villages, smaller and tidier gardens with fencing that prevents hedgehogs moving between gardens may have reduced suitable urban habitats. You can help by planting a hedge instead of having a fence or simply by making small holes in walls or fences so they can move freely around in search of food and mates or providing rough areas for shelter. If we all do a little we can achieve a lot for hedgehogs. More hedge planting took place with Caludon School pupils recently to further enhance the parks boundary. The wildflower area has now been cut (and collected as this reduces soil fertility which is good for wild flowers) and to reinforce this new feature it will be re-seeded in the Spring. In addition to the expanse of green space, the park facilities include: The car park is free to enter. The park has an active Friends Group and in addition to supporting events and activities in the park, they were successful with a submission for an external finding bid which helped improve the park entrances, the play area and to undertake environmental improvements. Your browser does not support iframes. 
 Association of Inland Navigation Authorities (external)
	AINA represents the inland navigation authorities of the United Kingdom. Broads Authority (external)
	The Broads is Britain's largest wetland and is part of the family of National Parks. British Marine Federation (external)
	Website for the British boating industry's trade association, the British Marine Federation Coventry Canal Basin (external) section of Canal & River Trust website Coventry Canal Society (external)
	For excellent information and images of the canal art trail and more. Environment Agency (external)
	the leading public body responsible for protecting and improving the environment in England and Wales The Living Environment Trust has responsibility for the maintenance of Coventry Canal. National Association of Boat Owners (external)
	The National Association of Boat Owners is dedicated to promoting the interests and concerns of boaters on Britain's Canals and Rivers. Residential Boat Owners' Association (external)
	The Residential Boat Owners' Association exists to act in the interests of boat dwellers. Maybe you'd like to live afloat but you don't know where to start, our FAQ covers the most common questions we get asked about living on a boat. You can also find details of our work and a diary of events.  Canals were built to carry Britain's goods 200 years ago, long before railways and motorways.  Time moves on and commercial boats and barges have all but disappeared, but the waterways still keep their charm and character.  Canals now provide a distinctive leisure asset to the community.  Because of their age, canals are home to some fascinating buildings.  In fact, you will find more listed buildings on the canals than anywhere else in Britain.  Part of Coventry Canal is even a conservation area, meaning there are some restrictions on changes to buildings and the built environment to preserve the unique canalside character. Most canals have towpaths that were used by horses to pull the boats. They are very pleasant to walk, and alive with wildflowers and animals.  Within Coventry, the towpath is paved so can be used in all weathers, although parts will be unlit at night. You can also use cycles on the towpaths, but please take care as the towpath is narrow in places with limited visibility under bridges.  A friendly bell ping ahead of blind corners will help people coming the other way, but do not assume people have head you so always be prepared to stop. The Canal River Trust looks after the canals in England and Wales and their heritage, and makes sure any improvements fit in.  This includes managing Coventry Canal Basin.  Details of events on the Coventry Canal can be found on the Visit Coventry website. There are multiple access points to Coventry Canal, but the main focus is Coventry Canal Basin, in the heart of the city.  It is a short walk from Pool Meadow Bus Station and Broadgate.  Take a look at this map to find out all the places where you can get onto the canal towpath. Address: Coventry Canal Basin, St Nicholas Street, Coventry CV1 4LY
By bus: Routes 20 and 148 stop on Foleshill Road, adjacent to the towpath at the Leicester Row bus stop opposite Halfords, just a short step-free walk from the Canal Basin.   Both routes pick up in the City Centre from Trinity Street, and run as far away as Longford, Bedworth and Nuneaton.  Both routes also cross the canal multiple times, so can be a useful option to complete a circular walking route in combination with public transport.
By road: For Coventry Canal Basin, leave Coventry Ring Road at Junction 1. Follow Foleshill Road, first left down Leicester Row, up St Nicholas Street.  Look for the brown direction signs when leaving the Ring Road.
Nearest parking: On-Street pay & display parking on Leicester Row, Draper's Fields and St. Columba's Close.
Admission: FREE. Open all year round. Canal-side shops and café opening times within the Canal Basin will vary. 
 Search for a car park by keyword or postcode View a map of all parking locations View a map of all car parks All car parks Parking Information Disabled Parking

On-street - Parking is free with no time restrictions for vehicles clearly displaying a Valid Disabled Badge in disabled bays unless otherwise specified on the bay signage.
Car parks - Parking is free for Disabled Badge Holders in Council-owned Car Parks. The Disabled badge will need to be clearly displayed. Please note that normal charges apply in West Orchards Car Park. Not all council-owned car parks in the city centre have disabled parking bays. Please check the individual pages for the car parks to see what facilities they have available. On-street - Parking is free with no time restrictions for vehicles clearly displaying a Valid Disabled Badge in disabled bays unless otherwise specified on the bay signage. Car parks - Parking is free for Disabled Badge Holders in Council-owned Car Parks. The Disabled badge will need to be clearly displayed. Please note that normal charges apply in West Orchards Car Park. Not all council-owned car parks in the city centre have disabled parking bays. Please check the individual pages for the car parks to see what facilities they have available. Short stay city centre car parks

Short Stay car parks near the shopping areas Short Stay car parks near the shopping areas Long stay city centre car parks

Ideal for people working in the city centre Ideal for people working in the city centre Pay on foot car parks

Barrier controlled car parks, where you can pay by card or cash Barrier controlled car parks, where you can pay by card or cash Pay and display car parks

Non-barrier controlled car parks, where you can pay by cash or by phone. Card payments are also available in some car parks. Non-barrier controlled car parks, where you can pay by cash or by phone. Card payments are also available in some car parks. Pay by smartphone

On & Off street locations where you can pay by phone app On & Off street locations where you can pay by phone app SwiftParking App

Download App via the App Store or Google Play Download App via the App Store or Google Play Weekly Tickets (Pay by Smartphone)

Valid in several Council-run long stay pay & display car parks. Only available via apps. Valid in several Council-run long stay pay & display car parks. Only available via apps. Hozah

This is a fully automated parking payment system that uses number plate recognition cameras to detect when drivers enter and leave a car park. You will need to register your details on Hozah.com before entering the car park. This is a fully automated parking payment system that uses number plate recognition cameras to detect when drivers enter and leave a car park. You will need to register your details on Hozah.com before entering the car park. Suburban Car Parks

car parks outside the city centre car parks outside the city centre Electric Vehicle Charging Points Coach parking Height restrictions Closed

Cheylesmore, Cox Street, Leicester Row, Moat Street, New Union Street and Whitefriars Car Parks are closed. Cheylesmore, Cox Street, Leicester Row, Moat Street, New Union Street and Whitefriars Car Parks are closed. On-Street Parking (Premium Rate Zone) - Up to 2 Hours

Pay & Display / Pay by Phone Pay & Display / Pay by Phone On-Street Parking (Zone 1) - Up to 2 hours

Pay & Display / Pay by Phone Pay & Display / Pay by Phone On-Street Parking (Zone 2) - Up to 4 hours

Pay & Display / Pay by Phone Pay & Display / Pay by Phone On-Street Parking (Zone 3) - up to 4 hours

Pay & Display / Pay by Phone Pay & Display / Pay by Phone War Memorial Car Parks  Please note new Tariffs apply from 6th May 2024 (See parking webpages for further details) Please note that due to a serious structural issue City Arcade Car park closed on 19 December 2023 and will remain closed for the foreseeable future. Most car parks in Coventry are run by the Council. We look after the day-to-day running of the car parks, making sure people can find a parking space and that the equipment is working at all times. The safety of the people who use the car parks is important and we are improving the security to reach the high standards of the Safer Parking Scheme. There are approximately 400 on-street parking spaces. 
  The Adult Social Care and Communities Directory has all the information and advice you need in one central place - so you can find the information you need easily. 
 domestic tasks, such as kettle tippers and perching stools bathing, such as bath boards and seats using the toilet, such as raised toilet seats and commodes mobility, such as hoists, specialist beds and chairs  There are many pieces of equipment and products that can help you to live as independently as possible by making everyday tasks easier and safer.  These can help with things such as: Sometimes it may be helpful for changes to be made to your home, for example, adding grab rails, widening doors, or fitting a stairlift. More information about changes to your home. Coventry TeleCareline is a 24-hour service that provides and monitors a range of equipment and sensors. These can be worn, or put in a person's home to help them remain independent. When alarms go off, support is provided, which can be from a neighbour or friend, a service organised by us or the emergency services. Home support, also known as domiciliary care, is a service provided by paid care workers in someone's own home to help them manage their day to day tasks. Support can include (but is not limited to) personal care, giving medication, washing and generally making sure people's health and wellbeing is being maintained. There is a range of providers of home support in Coventry that can help people and are available without the need for us to be involved. A personal assistant is someone you choose and employ to give the support you need, in the way that suits you best. This may include cooking, cleaning, help with personal care such as washing and dressing, and other things such as getting out and about in your community. If you have certain needs, your personal assistant can be paid through direct payments or a personal budget. Commonly known as Meals on Wheels, home meals are pre-packed meals delivered to people who can't prepare their own meals and do not have other support. In Coventry, we work with a provider called ICare that provides meals to people in contact with us and people who choose to buy meals privately. This service is open to the people who meet our conditions. The service helps people who can't manage their day-to-day laundry. The service involves delivery of a set of sheets either 'single' or 'double' that are pre-packed (each pack of laundry contains 'two bed sheets' and 'one draw sheet') and ready to be used. When a delivery is made, the old sheets are taken away for washing. 
 If it is safe for you to stay at home but you need additional support to cover the tasks your carer usually helps you with, you may need some temporary home support services or additional day opportunities during this time. If you need more support than can be provided at home you may need to stay in a residential home during this time.  This is called residential respite care.  It is really important that carers get a break from time to time because caring long-term can have lasting effects on a person’s health and wellbeing. You might need additional support so that you can arrange cover when your carer wants to take a break from their normal caring role, for example, if they want to go out with a friend or are going on holiday. This is sometimes called replacement care. As with many social care services for adults, you will need to meet the eligibility criteria and there may be a charge for this service depending on the outcome of your financial assessment and your ability to contribute towards the cost of your care, however not everyone will have to pay or the charge could be very low. This support needs to be flexible and different people will need different levels of help.  Replacement care can be organised in a number of ways. This is where some additional hours of support are allocated as part of your support plan and these can be used flexibly when your carer has something else they want to do such as visiting a friend or going out to socialise. We have a short break service provided by Carers Trust Heart of England which can be used or you might choose to take this as a direct payment so you can use a personal assistant or another agency. This is where you will need support over a longer period of time, for example, if your carer is going on holiday. Whatever option is required you can choose for us to arrange care and support on your behalf or to take your personal budget as a direct payment so you can arrange the support yourself with your carer. 
  We inspect and remove abandoned vehicles from the streets of Coventry. It is illegal to abandon a vehicle and we class an abandoned vehicle as one that has been left by the owner / registered keeper  with no intention to recover or accept responsibility for it. We have a duty to remove an abandoned vehicle. Trailers and caravans that would normally be attached to a vehicle can also be classed as abandoned vehicles. 
 do not use abbreviations e.g street for St. or Road for Rd. do not search by postcode View a list of Coventry schools and roads within their catchment areas.  One of the aims of local schools is to serve its neighbourhood and develop links with the local community to strengthen the school and the community. The area served by a school is known as the catchment area. Enter your street name to find out which primary and secondary school catchment areas cover your home. If more than one school is listed for your street, please view each school's listings for specific house numbers or names. do not use abbreviations e.g street for St. or Road for Rd.do not search by postcode Type a partial or whole road name. For example, High or High Street. Some Voluntary Aided schools (e.g. faith schools, Academies and Free schools) do not use catchment areas in their admission rules, or they use catchments based on parishes. Please refer to the school’s admissions policy or contact the school directly to find out if your address lies within the parish they serve. When making an application for a school in Coventry, you should use your current permanent address. A pupil's home address is considered to be a residential property that is the child's only or main residence. At the time of places being allocated, proof of permanent residence at the property concerned may be required. 
  360 tour of Central Library.  Your browser does not support iframes. 
 Council Tax Electoral roll Housing benefit and Council Tax support Libraries  When you move home you will need to contact some or all of the following departments to update your address details: 
 Any bruising to a baby - pre-walking stage Multiple bruising to different parts of the body Bruising of different colours, showing repeated injuries Fingertip-shaped bruising to the chest, back, arms or legs Burns of any shape or size An injury for which there is no proper explanation Something a child has told you Something a child has told someone else A child who shows worrying sexualised behaviour in their play or with other children A child who seems to have unsuitable sexual knowledge for their age A child who may be visiting or being looked after by a known or suspected sexual offender Children whose behaviour is excessive. For example, excessive bedwetting, overeating, rocking, headbanging. Children who self harm. For example, they may cut or scratch themselves or overdose. Children who attempt suicide Children who persistently run away from home Children who show high levels of anxiety, unhappiness or withdrawal Children who usually seek out or avoid affection. Squalid, unhygienic or dangerous home conditions Parents who fail to attend to their children's health or development needs Children who appear persistently undersized or underweight Children who continually appear tired or lacking in energy Children who suffer frequent injuries due to lack of supervision. Call Childline on 0800 1111 Call the NSPCC Helpline on 0808 800 5000 Check Coventry CSCP procedures  We all have a responsibility to make sure children and young people are safe from harm or abuse. If you have any suspicion, or information, suggesting a child is being harmed, don't ignore it. You can always ask for advice if you are not sure about a situation. The information below may help if you think a child or young person is being harmed. The following signs may be present in children whose parents are over-critical and emotionally distant, or who are unable to meet their child's emotional needs: If you wish to report a matter to the police, call 101 and state your concerns.
If you wish to report an emergency matter always dial 999.
Social worker (out of office hours): 024 7683 2222. If there is no immediate danger or you need advice or information, you should call the Multi-Agency Safeguarding Hub on 024 7678 8555. If you want to discuss your concerns or need advice e.g. if you are not sure whether your concerns are justified, you would like more information about issues like confidentiality or you would like to know what happens next (after you have reported your concerns), do one of the following: To make a referral, please complete the multi-agency referral form. Example of a completed multi-agency referral form. The Prevent Duty requires that if there are concerns that an individual may be vulnerable to radicalisation around violent extremism then these concerns need to be shared so that appropriate support is provided in order to safeguard those individuals. A partnership referral form has been prepared to make sure that it is easier to outline and submit the referrals. 
To make a Prevent referral for a child or young person a referral form needs to be completed. Coventry Safeguarding Children Partnership (CSCP) has produced new Right Help Right Time Guidance. The guidance helps practitioners to understand and assess risk consistently and appropriately so that children and families can receive the right help at the right time. It will help professionals to identify the support that a child, young person or family might need and how best this support can be provided. It replaces all previous threshold guidance or levels of need documents. 
 Application process How to use the application system Eligibility criteria Start-up grant frequently asked questions  This is a brief introduction to what is involved in becoming a registered childminder in Coventry. You need to pay your Council Tax to Coventry City Council to access direct support from the Early Years Service to help you through the registration process and beyond. It is a legal requirement that childminders have sufficient understanding and use of English to ensure the wellbeing of the children in their care. As a registered childminder you will look after one or more children under the age of 8 years, for more than a total of two hours a day, in your own home, for payment. Childminders may care for a maximum of six children under the age of eight at any one time. Of these six children, a maximum of three may be young children, and there should only be one child under the age of one. You will work to various legal requirements and be inspected by Ofsted to ensure you provide a safe and stimulating environment for the children that you care for. The Statutory Framework is standards that childminders must meet for the learning, development, and care of children from birth to 5. You will be self-employed and running your own business. Hours are flexible and you can work full or part-time depending on your family commitments. The first step is to watch this informative video which outlines the process and the next steps on how to register as a childminder. If you wish to proceed to the next step, you will need to contact the Coventry Early Years Service using the contact details at the end of the video.  The Childminder Start-up Grant Scheme is now open for applications. The scheme will support new childminders by providing them with grant funding, helping childminders with the cost of setting up their own businesses. The Childminder Start-up Grants Scheme will be available to all new childminders who have completed their registration on or after 15 March 2023. Individuals who have previously been registered as childminders and wish to re-register into the sector may also apply for the scheme. There must be at least a 12-month gap between the date of the previous registration being cancelled and the new registration being finalised. 
 Menu
Getting marriedBespoke ceremoniesCivil partnershipsRenewal of vows ceremoniesCommitment ceremoniesNaming ceremoniesCitizenship ceremoniesPhoto opportunitiesCeremony stationery Monday to Friday £170 per citizen with a maximum of six guests Saturday £220 per citizen with a maximum of six guests Monday to Friday £180 per citizen with a maximum of six guests Saturday £230 per citizen with a maximum of six guests Monday to Friday £190 per citizen with a maximum of six guests Saturday £240 per citizen with a maximum of six guests © Ceremonies inside Coventry. All rights reserved. Design: HTML5 UP  Citizenship ceremonies are an important part of the process of becoming a British citizen. These ceremonies are a special way of welcoming new citizens into the community. People have to swear or affirm an oath of allegiance to the Monarch and make a pledge to uphold the values and laws of the United Kingdom. The ceremonies are held by a registration officer in the presence of a civic official. Group ceremonies take place in the Coventry Council House Chambers every 4 weeks. We are also able to offer individual ceremonies at Coventry Register Office for an extra charge: From 1st April 2023 From 1st April 2024 From 1st April 2025 Book to arrange a date to attend a ceremony.   Photographs serve as personal mementos, capturing important moments and memories. After your ceremony an official photograph will be taken and available to purchase at an extra cost.  All official photographs will be pinted to a high quality and presented in a mount. Do not laminate your naturalisation certificate, this will invalidate it and the Passport Office will not accept it. If you would like to purchase a commemorative citizenship certificate to frame as a keepsake, or send to relatives these are available at an extra charge. Coventry Registration Services do not offer a nationality checking service, but many neighbouring offices do. To find out the full list of available local authority offices that offer the service, please visit the Home Office UK Border Agency website. 
 The area that is governed by Coventry City Council is made up of 18 areas (called 'wards'). Each ward is represented in Coventry City Council by three Councillors. There are three elections in every four years. Each ward elects one of their Councillors in each election (and then there is one year where no elections take place). Elections usually happen in May but you need to register to vote beforehand. The people who are elected are called Councillors or Elected Members. significantly affects the whole city or costs the Council more than £1million or the law requires the Council to decide on (e.g. setting the Council Tax). significantly affects more than two wards or will cost the Council up to £1million. affects up to two wards or will cost the Council up to £500k.  The Council Meeting is the ultimate decision making body and the principal forum for major political debate. Together the 54 elected Councillors make up Full Council. Full Council meets every six weeks. They are public meetings (there may be some private items of business), which you can attend or view as a live or archived webcast. The party with the most elected Councillors nominates one of their Councillors to be the Leader of the party. At the Council's annual general meeting (AGM) the Full Council votes to elect them to become the Leader of the Council. The Leader is the political face of the Council and does other duties as well as representing their ward. The Cabinet is made up of the Leader and nine other Councillors (usually from the same political party). The Cabinet has public meetings every month (they may contain some items of private business) and makes recommendations to the Full Council. Cabinet members are the people who are in the Cabinet. They each have a 'portfolio' of services that they are responsible for and they have their own meetings to discuss their specific responsibilities. The Lord Mayor is one of the Councillors and they are chosen each year by the Full Council. It is a non-political role, they chair the Council meetings, promote the city and perform ceremonial duties. The people who work for the Council (non-political employees) are sometimes called 'officers'. They research and implement the policies that are decided by the Councillors. The Chief Executive is the head of the officers. The Chief Executive is responsible for implementing the Council's policies. Coventry City Council can make decisions in four different ways: 1. Full Council makes decisions on anything that... 2.  The Cabinet makes decisions on anything that... 3. Cabinet members makes decisions on anything that... 4. Delegated decisions are when an officer can make the decision. These are day-to-day decisions. The scrutiny boards hold the decision makers to account. They review decisions and services, and can influence future decisions. There are five scrutiny boards; each with a different area of responsibility. There is also a Scrutiny Co-ordination Committee, which oversees the scrutiny boards and deals with the Leader and Deputy Leader's portfolios. The scrutiny boards are made up of a number of Councillors (who are not in the Cabinet). Scrutiny chairs are usually from the ruling party.    
 Access to the site is by booking only. Visitors arriving without a pre-booking will not be permitted access. Only cars, small vans, 4x4s or cars with trailers are permitted. The Centre is only open for use by Coventry residents, neighbouring councils have their own facilities. To ensure that only Coventry residents are using the site, we will be asking anyone who books a slot to please bring with them proof of residency. This can be a recent utility bill, council tax bill (printed or online) or a driving licence. You will be asked to show this by our security personnel upon entry. Staff will be able to advise you but will not be able to help unload your vehicle, so please only bring items that you can safely unload yourself. Face coverings are not required when outside of the vehicle. The number of vehicles allowed into the site will be restricted and you may need to queue. Visitors must bring proof of address (printed or online) such as a recent Council Tax bill or driving licence as they will be required to show proof of residency. This will need to be shown through a closed window. If you are unable to provide this information you will not be permitted access. Visitors bringing any sharp items should bring gloves or protective clothing to avoid any incidents. Staff will be able to advise you but will not be able to help unload your vehicle, so please only bring items that you can safely unload yourself We will not tolerate any aggressive or abusive behaviour towards our staff or other site users.  The household recycling and disposal centre (the tip) is free to use for the people of Coventry. If you do not live in Coventry, you should visit your local recycling centre in Nuneaton & Bedworth, North Warwickshire, Warwick, Solihull or Rugby Do not turn up more than 10 minutes before your appointment. Queuing outside the site will be monitored and if you arrive outside of your booked time slot, or traffic levels become dangerous, you may be asked to leave and return at another time. For information on what you can take to the tip please see items accepted, or A-Z of rubbish and recycling for information on specific items. Wash your hands or use hand sanitiser as soon as you get home. The current re-use and recycling rate is 69% Bar Road off London Road, Coventry, CV3 4AN.  For information on what you can take to the tip please see items accepted, or A-Z of rubbish and recycling for information on specific items. Staff will be able to advise you but will not be able to help unload your vehicle, so please only bring items that you can safely unload yourself. 
  Marriages and Civil partnerships can only take place in a building that has been licensed to hold these ceremonies. As well as the historic Cheylesmore Manor House, Coventry has a wonderful range of venues to suit every ceremony style. If you wish to marry in England and Wales you have the choice of religious or civil marriage. Civil Marriages can take place at Register Offices and at other buildings approved by the Council. If you wish to marry at one of these, you need to check with them if they are available and they will then contact the Register Office to make sure a registrar can attend at your chosen time.  The Register Office staff will then tell you of the next legal procedures. 
 Menu
Getting marriedBespoke ceremoniesCivil partnershipsRenewal of vows ceremoniesCommitment ceremoniesNaming ceremoniesCitizenship ceremoniesPhoto opportunitiesCeremony stationery © Ceremonies inside Coventry. All rights reserved. Design: HTML5 UP  The Civil Partnership Bill of 2005 gives partners in same-sex relationships the opportunity to have their relationship recognised in law. After registration, couples have the same rights as a married couple in areas such as tax, social security, inheritance and workplace benefits. There is no legal requirement for a ceremony as part of the formation of a civil partnership however we understand that many couples wish to have a celebration. In 2013 the law changed allowing same sex couples to have a legal marriage. If you would like to have a marriage ceremony, go to getting married in Coventry. It's your choice -  whether you wish to sign your schedule in the presence of just two witnesses, or if you want to have your own ceremony. A civil partnership may be registered at one of our ceremony rooms within Cheylesmore Manor House or at an approved venue. There is no extra charge if your ceremony is held in a statutory Register Office Room, but there is an extra cost if you want to use the Black Prince Room, The Queen Isabella Room or Library for your ceremony. If you would prefer a bespoke ceremony where you can choose your own vows, readings, music etc. and would like to be escorted into the room by someone of your choice please see bespoke ceremonies. Both you and your partner are required to give separate notices of marriage/civil partnership and you will need to give notice at least 28 days before your ceremony. The earliest you can give notice is 12 months prior to the date of the marriage. Before you book a ceremony please read this notice of civil partnership information. 
 pay rent to a private landlord or a Housing Association; are a boarder whose rent includes meals; live in a hostel; live in a mobile home or a houseboat; or are renting under a shared ownership arrangement. you have reached State Pension Age you are in supported, sheltered or temporary housing  You can make a claim for Housing Benefit if you: and If you do not meet either of the above two criteria, any new claim for help with rent must be made through Universal Credit. 
  If you produce or hold hazardous waste (clinical) at your premises in England and Wales you must register your site with the Environment Agency on an annual basis unless the total quantity of hazardous waste to be removed is less than 500kg per year. The Environment Agency will issue a Hazardous Waste Registration Report which details your specific registration number. In addition to the above whether you are registered or not with the Environmental Agency you will still have to produce a consignment note every time your hazardous waste (clinical) is collected. For advice on this matter please contact us. 
 The Coventry TeleCareline
	If you would like to request a response alarm, please complete this online form. Fire/Intruder/Panic alarm monitoring and response service
	A first class service provided for public, commercial and private premises. Key holding services
	Let us hold your keys and you can stay in bed when your business alarm rings at 3am. CCTV monitoring
	We monitor a variety of CCTV systems, including Adpro. Our diligent officers can pick up incidents and arrange for the blue light services to attend the incident. Lone working
	Providing peace of mind for lone workers and their managers. Bollard access request.
	To access Broadgate we require 48 hours' notice.  We can provide a variety of products and services to assist with your security solutions. Our services include: In June 2021 we were awarded the Surveillance Camera Commissioners Certification Mark of Compliance.  
 visiting Coventry Museums and galleries Arts Sport facilities and local clubs Coventry Markets Parks and open spaces Local archives Local places of worship Link to Go CV card for Coventry residents that gives exclusive offers with our partners on some of the city’s most exciting events and activities. Guide to adding entries onto the Coventry Information Directory  There are a wide range of things to do in Coventry. From adult education to zumba  you can see what is in your area. Find out what is happening near you and maybe join a group? What's on in libraries We hold regular events and activities for adults and children in all of our libraries. These range from events for toddlers and pre-school children such as rhymetime and stay and play, through to events for older people such as friendship groups. All of our events are free to attend unless otherwise stated. Events in Coventry Find out about events being held in the coming week and the calendar ahead. Leisure and culture These pages on the Council website provide information on:  Citivision magazine Citivision is the magazine delivered to your home, bringing you news, views and features about the work of the Council and life in Coventry. The magazine includes information about how you can get in touch with your local councillors and reports on the many events taking place in the city. You can also view Citivision magazine online or download it as a PDF: http://www.coventry.gov.uk/info/4/council_news_and_publications/255/citivision_magazine If you want to add information about an activity to this section of the directory, please look at the Guide to Adding Entries onto the Coventry Information Directory by clicking in the Downloads box on this page.  The Go CV card is a free scheme for Coventry residents that gives exclusive offers with our partners on some of the city’s most exciting events and activities, including free entry to Coventry Transport Museum, reduced price comedy and theatre tickets and discounted entry to The Wave. For details of how to register online for a card visit the Go CV website.  
 Committee meetings Freedom of information Procurement Single Assurance Framework Privacy Policy Careers Media Assets Documents      Accessibility Statement Terms & Conditions Policies  Richard Parker is the new Mayor of the West Midlands after being declared winner of the 2024 election. Combined Authorities are set up to improve their region’s economies. We invest in the region through collaboration with our partners, but we don’t replace local councils. 08 May 2024 Company uses data to help people find alternative travel routes and to ‘nudge’ visitors towards net-zero travel 04 May 2024 Labour candidate to serve as Mayor and chair of the WMCA for next four years 26 March 2024 Entrepreneur Mandeep Soor has been awarded £3000 in prize money and a package of bespoke business support for help her technology startup. 20 March 2024 Grant funding is part of a £20 million investment by the WMCA in the region’s vibrant arts, culture and heritage organisations to enhance the positive... Don't miss out on vital information, subscribe today and be in the know at all times. 
 have a comment about our services; want to complain if we didn't get it right for you; or want to compliment us if we have done something well.  Coventry City Council is committed to putting local people and their needs at the heart of what it does. We want to ensure that people have a positive and trouble-free experience with us in all transactions and interactions. However, sometimes things go wrong. When things go wrong, we encourage people to speak up, so that we can make things right. We want you to tell us if you: How to make your comment, compliment or complaint 
 visiting Coventry Museums and galleries Arts Sport facilities and local clubs Coventry Markets Parks and open spaces Local archives Local places of worship Link to Go CV card for Coventry residents that gives exclusive offers with our partners on some of the city’s most exciting events and activities. Guide to adding entries onto the Coventry Information Directory  There are a wide range of things to do in Coventry. From adult education to zumba  you can see what is in your area. Find out what is happening near you and maybe join a group? What's on in libraries We hold regular events and activities for adults and children in all of our libraries. These range from events for toddlers and pre-school children such as rhymetime and stay and play, through to events for older people such as friendship groups. All of our events are free to attend unless otherwise stated. Events in Coventry Find out about events being held in the coming week and the calendar ahead. Leisure and culture These pages on the Council website provide information on:  Citivision magazine Citivision is the magazine delivered to your home, bringing you news, views and features about the work of the Council and life in Coventry. The magazine includes information about how you can get in touch with your local councillors and reports on the many events taking place in the city. You can also view Citivision magazine online or download it as a PDF: http://www.coventry.gov.uk/info/4/council_news_and_publications/255/citivision_magazine If you want to add information about an activity to this section of the directory, please look at the Guide to Adding Entries onto the Coventry Information Directory by clicking in the Downloads box on this page.  The Go CV card is a free scheme for Coventry residents that gives exclusive offers with our partners on some of the city’s most exciting events and activities, including free entry to Coventry Transport Museum, reduced price comedy and theatre tickets and discounted entry to The Wave. For details of how to register online for a card visit the Go CV website.  
 Help support customers who are leaving temporary, homeless, or hostel accommodation Ease exceptional pressure on people or families. Examples of exceptional pressure could include a breakdown of family relationships or disruption due to a major fire or flooding at home. Help people who are setting up home after leaving accommodation in which they received significant and substantial care and supervision (examples include leaving hospital or prison). Help people who are setting up home as part of a planned programme of resettlement (organised by someone like a Local Authority, voluntary organisation, housing association or registered charity) Help people who need help to stay in the community rather than enter accommodation to receive care (such as a residential care home or nursing home). Able to meet one of the above criteria A resident of Coventry which includes the address you are moving to Receiving one of the following benefits:
	
Income Support
Income-Based Jobseeker’s Allowance
Income-Related Employment & Support Allowance
Universal Credit
Pension Credit Income Support Income-Based Jobseeker’s Allowance Income-Related Employment & Support Allowance Universal Credit Pension Credit If you are moving outside of the Coventry Local Authority area. The new Local Authority might provide support or operate a similar scheme. If you are unsure of which local authority your new address comes under, please visit Check your Council Tax band - GOV.UK quoting your new postcode. If you are in a crisis and require immediate support with Food, Gas and/or Electricity. If your items are damaged, broken, or worn and you require financial support replacing these If you require support with flooring, curtains or any other items which are not listed on the application form or the essential items page.  The Community Support Grant was introduced to provide financial support to customers who are moving into a property with the essential household items needed to set up a home. The scheme will consider applications to To apply for a Community Support Grant, you must be: A Community Support Grant cannot provide support: However, Support may be available through the Household Support Fund. You can contact them on 08085 834333 by selecting option 1 for Household Support Fund or visit Household Support Fund for more information. 
 Worried about falling Recently discharged from hospital and requiring additional support and assistance at home Living alone Caring for someone that needs extra help Living with disabilities Living with a long term health condition, for example, dementia Serious falls Leaving the house and not returning Fire and smoke Flood Carbon Monoxide leaks  The Telecare service is a more advanced type of community alarm, with a wide range of devices to support you in your own home. It aims to provide reassurance 24 hours a day to those living on their own or caring for vulnerable people. Telecare may be able to help you if you are: Telecare can detect events such as: 
 Help support customers who are leaving temporary, homeless, or hostel accommodation Ease exceptional pressure on people or families. Examples of exceptional pressure could include a breakdown of family relationships or disruption due to a major fire or flooding at home. Help people who are setting up home after leaving accommodation in which they received significant and substantial care and supervision (examples include leaving hospital or prison). Help people who are setting up home as part of a planned programme of resettlement (organised by someone like a Local Authority, voluntary organisation, housing association or registered charity) Help people who need help to stay in the community rather than enter accommodation to receive care (such as a residential care home or nursing home). Able to meet one of the above criteria A resident of Coventry which includes the address you are moving to Receiving one of the following benefits:
	
Income Support
Income-Based Jobseeker’s Allowance
Income-Related Employment & Support Allowance
Universal Credit
Pension Credit Income Support Income-Based Jobseeker’s Allowance Income-Related Employment & Support Allowance Universal Credit Pension Credit If you are moving outside of the Coventry Local Authority area. The new Local Authority might provide support or operate a similar scheme. If you are unsure of which local authority your new address comes under, please visit Check your Council Tax band - GOV.UK quoting your new postcode. If you are in a crisis and require immediate support with Food, Gas and/or Electricity. If your items are damaged, broken, or worn and you require financial support replacing these If you require support with flooring, curtains or any other items which are not listed on the application form or the essential items page.  The Community Support Grant was introduced to provide financial support to customers who are moving into a property with the essential household items needed to set up a home. The scheme will consider applications to To apply for a Community Support Grant, you must be: A Community Support Grant cannot provide support: However, Support may be available through the Household Support Fund. You can contact them on 08085 834333 by selecting option 1 for Household Support Fund or visit Household Support Fund for more information. 
 visiting Coventry Museums and galleries Arts Sport facilities and local clubs Coventry Markets Parks and open spaces Local archives Local places of worship Link to Go CV card for Coventry residents that gives exclusive offers with our partners on some of the city’s most exciting events and activities. Guide to adding entries onto the Coventry Information Directory  There are a wide range of things to do in Coventry. From adult education to zumba  you can see what is in your area. Find out what is happening near you and maybe join a group? What's on in libraries We hold regular events and activities for adults and children in all of our libraries. These range from events for toddlers and pre-school children such as rhymetime and stay and play, through to events for older people such as friendship groups. All of our events are free to attend unless otherwise stated. Events in Coventry Find out about events being held in the coming week and the calendar ahead. Leisure and culture These pages on the Council website provide information on:  Citivision magazine Citivision is the magazine delivered to your home, bringing you news, views and features about the work of the Council and life in Coventry. The magazine includes information about how you can get in touch with your local councillors and reports on the many events taking place in the city. You can also view Citivision magazine online or download it as a PDF: http://www.coventry.gov.uk/info/4/council_news_and_publications/255/citivision_magazine If you want to add information about an activity to this section of the directory, please look at the Guide to Adding Entries onto the Coventry Information Directory by clicking in the Downloads box on this page.  The Go CV card is a free scheme for Coventry residents that gives exclusive offers with our partners on some of the city’s most exciting events and activities, including free entry to Coventry Transport Museum, reduced price comedy and theatre tickets and discounted entry to The Wave. For details of how to register online for a card visit the Go CV website.  
  
  
  
 Twitter Facebook CT Passenger Next Prev Contact us Sitemap Terms and conditions Privacy policy Job vacancies Login Logout 0800 030 9246 [email protected] Speak to a person        CT Furniture collects and supplies pre-owned, qood quality affordable furniture to individuals and families across the West Midlands and the North East of England We hear from our longest serving volunteer Iris Stewart who volunteers at CT Furniture Newcastle. Read more Read more Copyright © 2022 Community Transport. All rights reserved.Staff area Community Transport is a company limited by guarantee registered in England and Wales, Registered number 2118677 and a registered as a Charity, Registered number 247331 Registered office: Croft Myl, West Parade, Halifax, West Yorkshire, HX1 2EQ 
 have a comment about our services; want to complain if we didn't get it right for you; or want to compliment us if we have done something well.  Coventry City Council is committed to putting local people and their needs at the heart of what it does. We want to ensure that people have a positive and trouble-free experience with us in all transactions and interactions. However, sometimes things go wrong. When things go wrong, we encourage people to speak up, so that we can make things right. We want you to tell us if you: How to make your comment, compliment or complaint 
 help protect your environment save you money help your garden grow naturally home composting Love Food Hate Waste Coventry Recycling Club  The amount of rubbish each property in Coventry produces is growing. Composting is one of the best ways of reducing waste. It is possible to compost about a fifth of the waste in a bin without causing any environmental damage. This is more environmentally friendly than recycling as no energy is needed for transport or in the recycling process. Home composting increases the amount of wildlife such as worms and natural predators. It reduces the need for buying peaty composts which damage natural peat habitats. Putting compost in your soil makes it healthier by increasing natural nutrients and organic matter. To start composting for yourself and get a discounted composter, please visit composting and composters. If you would like further information on composting, please contact the Waste Education Team at RecyclingChampions@coventry.gov.uk or visit the following websites: A water butt collects rainwater to use on your garden. By using a water butt you can save litres of treated tap water and can help lower your water bills if you have a water meter. Water butt kits are available from local DIY and online stores, including the Save Water and get composting websites. Food waste was found to make up over 35% of the waste collected in the green-lidded bins (rubbish) in Coventry. Shopping smartly and planning meals can help reduce the amount of food that ends up in the wheeled bin. For more information on recycling and for tips on the best ways to save money with food and cooking, please visit Love Food Hate Waste.  
 General Principles Functions of Cabinet Functions of Council Functions of Scrutiny Functions of Ethics Committee Functions of Licensing and Regulatory Committee Functions of Planning Committee Functions of the Appeals Committee, Appointments Panel and Independent Remuneration Panel Functions of Audit and Procurement Committee Functions of Coventry Health and Wellbeing Board Functions of Emergency Planning Forum Joint Health Overview and Scrutiny Committee Scheme of Functions Delegated to Employees Coventry Shareholder Committee Council Procedure Rules Access to Information Procedure Rules Budget and Policy Framework Procedure Rules Cabinet Procedure Rules Scrutiny Procedure Rules Financial Procedure Rules Rules for Contracts Employment Procedure Rules Petitions Procedure Rules Appeals Committee Procedure Rules Code of Conduct for Elected and Co-opted Members Code of Conduct for Employees Code of Good Planning Practice for Members and Employees dealing with Planning Matters Member Officer Protocol Monitoring Office Protocol  The Council has a Constitution which sets out how the Council operates, how decisions are made and the procedures which are followed to ensure that decisions are efficient, transparent, and accountable to local people. Some of these processes are required by the law, while others are a matter for the Council to choose. The Constitution is divided into 6 parts, which provide detailed procedures relating to Council Meetings, Access to Information Rules, and the Members' Code of Conduct. View the full constitution Download Part 1 Download Part 2 Download Part 3 Download Part 4 Download Part 5 Download Part 6 
  
  Need Consumer Advice? Call Citizens Advice consumer service on 0808 223 1133 or use the online reporting form. The service is open Monday to Friday from 9am to 5pm. The Citizens Advice consumer service website also has advice leaflets and template letters to help you make a complaint. The Consumer Group - Which? also have a dedicated Consumer Rights website that provides help to consumers getting to know their consumer rights, the Regulations and Laws surrounding these, and how to take action if you have a problem. We no longer give advice by telephone, e-mail or to personal callers. Instead our partners, the Citizens Advice consumer service offer free telephone advice or you can contact them online. We cannot deal with civil issues, including disputes where both parties are consumers, or both are traders. 
  Contaminated land is generally caused by pollution from industrial activities or waste disposal sites (landfills). For land to be called contaminated, it has to be proven that there is a significant risk to either humans, wildlife or water resources. By law, the Council must identify sites that could be classed as contaminated. The Contaminated Land Statutory Guidance says the Council must produce and publish a plan to identify and investigate potentially contaminated land within its district. Read Coventry's strategy. If one of the sites identified is to be redeveloped, there will be conditions placed on the planning permission. These conditions ensure the contamination is investigated, and cleaned up to a suitable level. The Council is not responsible for the clean-up, or any costs involved. The investigation and clean-up should be carried out by a professional consultancy. All documents relating to planning applications are available to view free of charge through our planning portal. Regulation of contaminated land only came into force in the mid-1990s. This means there are a number of sites that were redeveloped without contaminated land planning conditions. As such there are no details of how the land was cleaned up, if at all. To protect people's health, the Council must investigate these sites with the highest priority dealt with first. The Environmental Protection Team has investigated a large number of these sites. None of these sites has been proven to be a risk to human health, water resources or the environment under Part IIA of the Environmental Protection Act 1990. To date there are no, nor have there been any Part IIA contaminated land entries made on our contaminated land public register (as of January 2017). The Council does not have to publish the list of potentially contaminated land sites. Sometimes people such as mortgage lenders ask to see the records. These requests fall under the Environmental Information Regulations 2004. Under these regulations the Council may charge for officers' time in preparing the report. 
  The Council's Contracts Register shows details of current contracts. Please contact Procurement Services should you wish to find out more details about any specific contracts. 
  Many large factories and office blocks have cooling towers and evaporative condensers associated with their air conditioning units. As there is a risk of spreading legionnaires disease from these units all premises where cooling towers and evaporative condensers are situated must register with the Council under The Notification of Cooling Towers and Evaporative Condensers Regulations 1992. Registered premises within Coventry which are enforced by the Council for health and safety may be subject to an inspection/intervention visit. 
  
 To have fun To build confidence To experience new things To get fitter To have the chance to see a different side of Coombe Abbey Park To meet new people and make friends To pick the brains of the park's experienced staff To improve your CV To do something rewarding and give something back to the local community To build rapport within your team  We don't have any volunteer opportunities available at the moment other than for large groups and businesses, however, you can check our Facebook and X (formerly Twitter) accounts to keep up-to-date with any upcoming opportunities. We endeavour to make sure the volunteering experience is a worthwhile one for volunteers and they are given the necessary support to carry out their role here, this is why we only take on a limited number of volunteers at a time. We run larger events throughout the year for one-off volunteering tasks, and also help groups and businesses to get involved with a volunteering task in return for a donation to enhance the estate. All groups and businesses are welcome whatever skills or background they have. If you have a group or business that would like to get involved with a volunteering task at Coombe Abbey Park, then please email your request to coombe@coventry.gov.uk and our estate team will get in touch. We will then contact you to discuss tasks and if we have any availability. We will provide all the tools, training and equipment you need as well as free car parking for the days you are working. Find out about other volunteering opportunities in Coventry's parks and open spaces. 
 damage or danger to the natural environment pollution to water or land poaching or illegal fishing illegal removals from watercourses  Coombe Pool Fishery will close on 14 March at the end of the season, after which essential works will be taking place to ensure the reservoir remains compliant under the Reservoir Safety Act 1975. Coombe Pool Fishery, Dam Wall and Woodland banks will remain closed until October 2024. If you would like to receive a new season ticket application form, please email coombe@coventry.gov.uk to request an application pack. There is strictly no pike or zander fishing permitted until 1 October. Coombe Pool Fishery operates a traditional close season. The fishery is open for anglers from 16 June to 14 March. The Lindley Bank (season ticket holders only) closes on 31 December in keeping with the management of the Heron standing ground in the area. Coombe Pool Fishery is a mature estate lake covering 80 acres set in the beautiful 400 acre Coombe Abbey Park, noted for its specimen Pike, Zander, Carp, Tench and Bream. You can relax in the stunning surroundings of historic Coombe Abbey Park while you fish the spectacular lake, which was originally designed as part of the landscape by Capability Brown. The lake is part of the designated Site of Special Scientific Interest which covers the Heronry and protected woodland that lines one side of the lake. It is now home to a wealth of wildlife and is an attraction all year round. Please note that the day ticket car park closes daily at Dusk and reopens at Dawn. Guest tickets are available for day ticket anglers and these can be purchased from the ticket machine. Guests are also permitted on our Full Season Ticket + Guest permit. Guests are not permitted to fish on either of these tickets. If you have concerns about: Incidents should be reported to Coombe Abbey Park, The Visitor Centre on 024 7645 3720 or coombe@coventry.gov.uk and in addition reported directly to the Environment Agency. Telephone: 0800 80 70 60 24-hour service 
 The name or names the certificate applies to The date of the event The place of the event Parents' names for a birth certificate Any other information that may help us find the certificate  If you want to get a copy of a certificate for a birth that was registered in Coventry you can apply online or by telephone. We do not take postal applications. Certificates are usually produced within five working days of making the application. For an extra fee we offer a priority service where certificates can be issued within 24 hours of ordering. Telephone applications need a card payment. Please have these details ready when calling. The certificate(s) will be posted within five working days. You should allow at least 10 working days for the return of a certificate by post unless you have paid extra for priority ordering. Costs of a copy of a birth certificate Apply online for a copy of a birth certificate 
 Copies of birth certificates Copies of death certificates Copies of marriages   Issuing copies of a certificate for birth, marriage or death that was registered in the area.   
 The name or names the certificate applies to The date of the event The place of the event Any other relevant information that may help us locate the certificate  You will need to provide the following information: If you want a copy certificate for a death that was registered in Coventry you can apply online or by telephone. Certificates are usually produced within five working days. Telephone applications need a card payment. Please have these details ready when telephoning the office. The certificate(s) will be sent off within five working days but you should allow at least ten working days for the return of a certificate by post. We offer a priority service for an extra fee. Order a copy certificate The fee for a certificate is £11.00. A Copy Certificate is a certified copy of the original entry in the register, signed by either the Registrar or Superintendent Registrar and as such is a legal document that can be used for official purposes. All certificates take up to ten working days to be produced. These will then be sent by first class post. We offer a priority service for an additional fee of £24. This fee will make sure certificates are ready within 24 hours. Certificates will be posted to you by first class post. 
 Once we receive your request to re-use information, we will respond within 20 working days. This time limit can be extended if the information is extensive or the request raises complex issues, but we will inform you of this within the 20 day period. We must permit re-use in response to a request. However, the RPSI does not apply to information that would be exempt from disclosure under information access legislation such as Freedom of Information. We do not have to permit re-use of exempt information and information we have withheld. If the council has not previously disclosed the information requested, then we will deal with this as an access request under the appropriate legislation (as a Freedom of Information or Environmental Information Regulations request) in order to decide whether the information is exempt. This will be the first stage of dealing with the request and once responded to, we will then deal with the re-use request. We will make the information for re-use available in the format and language in which it is held by us. If we don’t already hold it in an open and machine readable with metadata, but it is possible and appropriate to make it available in this way, then we will do so. This means open formats, such as CSV, which are preferable to proprietary formats such as XLS.  RPSI means using public sector information for a purpose other than the initial task it was produced for. This means an individual, a company or other organisation taking information that we (the Council) have produced and republishing it, or using it to produce a new product or resource, sometimes combining it with other information. This is sometimes, not always, on a commercial basis. RPSI is intended to encourage re-use of public sector information. RPSI is about permitting re-use of information and how this is made available, it is not about accessing information, which is dealt with under information access legislation, for example, Freedom of Information requests To make a request for re-use to Coventry City Council, you must submit the request in writing, with your name and address for correspondence, and specify the information that you want to re-use and the purpose you intend to use it for. Please note that you do not need to make a request if we have already made the information available under the Open Government Licence (OGL), which would be stated alongside the information, but you must follow the terms of the OGL. Please send all RPSI requests to: Information Governance Team
Coventry City Council
Room 57
Council House
Earl Street
Coventry
CV1 5RR
Or
infogov@coventry.gov.uk 
  Book an appointment to register a neonatal death When a live-born child dies before the 28th day of life, the doctor who was present at the birth or examined the body will issue a medical certificate of cause of death of live-born child dying before the first 28 days of life. The person who registers the death must take this certificate to the registrar's office. Every neonatal death in England or Wales must be registered in the district in which it takes place, normally within 5 days. Information is given to the registrar and recorded in the register. The person registering the death signs the record. If you cannot get to the district where the death took place, you can speak to another registrar. They will record the details on a form of declaration and send it to the registrar for the district where the death took place. Details will then be entered in the register. Certificates of death, which may be ordered and paid for at the time of making the declaration, as well as the document for the burial or cremation, will be posted by the registrar for the district where the death took place. If a declaration is made, it may take a day or two longer for the document for burial or cremation to be issued. The family should discuss the arrangements with their funeral director and the registrar to avoid any delay to the funeral. 
 The death happened in the community (not in the hospital, etc) The person responsible for making the funeral arrangements is not in receipt of the following from the Benefits Agency:
	
Income Support
Income-related Employment & Support Allowance
Working Families Tax Credit
Housing Benefit
Pension Credit
Disabled Persons Tax Credit
Income-based Job Seekers' Allowance
Child Tax Credit
Universal Credit Income Support Income-related Employment & Support Allowance Working Families Tax Credit Housing Benefit Pension Credit Disabled Persons Tax Credit Income-based Job Seekers' Allowance Child Tax Credit Universal Credit Funeral Director's services Hearse Direct Burial or cremation (the provision of burial is dependent on criteria) Coffin Death Notice in newspaper Floral tributes Urn for ashes/interment of ashes Limousines An attended service with minister / officiant  We arrange funerals when we are told when people have died with no next of kin or where there may not be enough funds to carry out a funeral service. In these cases, we may be asked to arrange the funeral. It is our duty, under the Public Health Control of Disease Act 1984 section 46(i), to arrange a cremation or a burial for a person who has died within our area where no suitable funeral arrangements have been, or are being, made. It is most important that you contact us before any arrangements are made with a Funeral Director. Please be aware that by law the first claim on any estate is for the funeral costs. We will, therefore, reclaim costs if an estate is found to exist. If the funeral has not yet been arranged, we may provide a basic funeral if the following are met: We will provide: (Please be advised burial will take place in a communal burial plot located at Lenton's Lane Cemetery only) All our advice, help and arrangements will recognise and value the cultural and religious traditions of the family involved. Please be advised it is not possible to 'upgrade' any part of the above detailed services supplied. 
  Coventry Homefinder is the scheme by which most of the social housing in Coventry is allocated. Coventry City Council do not own any council houses and social properties are provided solely by registered housing providers. The scheme advertises social and affordable rented properties and aims to give you choice about where you live and the type of accommodation you would like to move to. All applicants are assessed according to their housing need, given a priority band and advised what size property they are eligible for. You decide which properties you would like to be considered for and can place a bid on up to 3 properties. The properties are usually let to the person in the highest priority band and if there is more than 1 household with the same priority the property will be offered to those who have waited the longest. Not everybody that applies will qualify to join the housing register and social housing is in very high demand in Coventry, so alongside your Homefinder application you will need to consider all other housing options available to you. Coventry Homefinder is a Choice Based Lettings Allocation Scheme. People who want to move into a social rented home in Coventry can register with Coventry Homefinder. A banding system is used to give priority to those people with an urgent housing need (e.g. those people who are homeless, are overcrowded or who have a medical or welfare need to move) over those people who have no identified housing need and/or are currently adequately housed. Available social housing properties are advertised each week and applicants can express an interest in (bid on) properties that they want to be considered for. At the end of each advertising period, a shortlist is created of all the applicants that have bid on the property, based on their band and their registration/effective date. The Council no longer owns any housing following the transfer of all the former Council housing to Whitefriars Housing Group (now Citizen) in September 2000. However, the Local Authority is legally required to have a scheme that allocates social housing. The aim is that those with the greatest need for housing are prioritised. 
 Administration fee of £100 One-off wayleave fee of £600 Legal Fees of £300. Total wayleave charge of £1000.  The Property Asset Management team manage our land ownership records. If you need to establish whether we own a piece of land please e-mail CouncilLandEnquiries@coventry.gov.uk However, if you have a general land ownership query please contact: Land Registry Land Registry, 
Telephone: 0300 006 0411 Submit your easement/wayleave agreement application New applications are subject to a £100 administration fee in order for the Council to review the online application. For wayleave agreements, once the Council has had the opportunity to review the online application a decision will be made as to whether the wayleave agreement is handled in-house or outsourced to the Council’s Land Agents.
Standard wayleave agreements will be handled in-house and subject to the following charges: There may be individual cases where due to the specific details or complex nature of the application the wayleave application cannot be treated as a standard wayleave application. In such cases, an increased wayleave fee and legal fee will be applied.
Once the proposed route has been agreed upon, the Council’s Legal Services team will be instructed to prepare the wayleave document for your consideration. Please use our online form to submit your easement/wayleave agreement application. If you need help or want to discuss the contents of the form, please email CouncilLandEnquiries@coventry.gov.uk. 
  We publish advance notice of all key decisions expected to be taken over the next five weeks and private reports expected to be considered by the Cabinet. The week before each meeting, we publish notice of time and place of meetings of the Council and its various committees and boards, as well as the agendas and reports for these meetings. We also publish weekly lists of executive decisions made by the Cabinet and individual Cabinet Members. View the calendar of meetings and list of online public meetings. 
  
  
  All councillors receive a basic allowance for the work they do as a councillor and some receive an additional special responsibility allowance where they have significant additional responsibilities. Councillors can also claim childcare, travel, subsistence and telephone expenses. You can view an annual breakdown of the allowances paid to Coventry City councillors and co-opted members since 2005. The Council is required to appoint an Independent Remuneration Panel to review the Member Allowance Scheme. An Independent Remuneration Panel reviewed the scheme in 2020/21 and made recommendations to Council on 8 December 2020 (see documents for item 61) The decisions can be seen in the minutes from this meeting at item 61. Further information about the current Member Allowances Scheme can be found in part five of the Constitution. 
  All councillors receive a basic allowance for the work they do as a councillor and some receive an additional special responsibility allowance where they have significant additional responsibilities. Councillors can also claim childcare, travel, subsistence and telephone expenses. You can view an annual breakdown of the allowances paid to Coventry City councillors and co-opted members since 2005. The Council is required to appoint an Independent Remuneration Panel to review the Member Allowance Scheme. An Independent Remuneration Panel reviewed the scheme in 2020/21 and made recommendations to Council on 8 December 2020 (see documents for item 61) The decisions can be seen in the minutes from this meeting at item 61. Further information about the current Member Allowances Scheme can be found in part five of the Constitution. 
  The Park Service Rangers provide a range of services in woodlands, local parks and green spaces and support many Friends of Parks groups. They organise and promote a wide range of events, walks and talks, workshops and a variety of volunteering opportunities. You can follow their work on X (formerly Twitter): @covparkranger. The Rangers work all over the city of Coventry in parks, woodlands and other green spaces. The Rangers attend a variety of resident and community group meetings in their areas and liaise with agencies like Canals and River Trust, the Wildlife Trust, The Conservation Volunteers, Community Development Services, Public Health Team and the Police. The Park Rangers have a Volunteer Day on the third Wednesday of the month. For more information on tasks and venues please contact the Rangers by calling or emailing. Please remember to wear strong footwear and bring a packed lunch if you are planning to stay all day. 
   Coventry ELC is a Pupil Referral Unit for Key Stage 3 & 4 pupils who have struggled to access mainstream school education due to Social, Emotional & Mental Health (SEMH) issues. The core purpose of the ELC is ‘Enhancing Futures’ - maximising the potential of all our students. We seek to identify and meet our students’ needs to enable us to reintegrate them into mainstream school or into special educational settings or to support them to successfully complete Year 11 with us. Our students commonly arrive with negative views of education, of their own prospects and all too often of themselves. Our dedicated staff work tirelessly to re-engage young people, building trust and motivation to enable them to stretch themselves and achieve their potential. I take huge pride and pleasure in helping young people to believe in themselves and others, moving on to a brighter future. Glenn Mellor, Headteacher.  
  Coventry Homefinder is the scheme by which most of the social housing in Coventry is allocated. Coventry City Council do not own any council houses and social properties are provided solely by registered housing providers. The scheme advertises social and affordable rented properties and aims to give you choice about where you live and the type of accommodation you would like to move to. All applicants are assessed according to their housing need, given a priority band and advised what size property they are eligible for. You decide which properties you would like to be considered for and can place a bid on up to 3 properties. The properties are usually let to the person in the highest priority band and if there is more than 1 household with the same priority the property will be offered to those who have waited the longest. Not everybody that applies will qualify to join the housing register and social housing is in very high demand in Coventry, so alongside your Homefinder application you will need to consider all other housing options available to you. Coventry Homefinder is a Choice Based Lettings Allocation Scheme. People who want to move into a social rented home in Coventry can register with Coventry Homefinder. A banding system is used to give priority to those people with an urgent housing need (e.g. those people who are homeless, are overcrowded or who have a medical or welfare need to move) over those people who have no identified housing need and/or are currently adequately housed. Available social housing properties are advertised each week and applicants can express an interest in (bid on) properties that they want to be considered for. At the end of each advertising period, a shortlist is created of all the applicants that have bid on the property, based on their band and their registration/effective date. The Council no longer owns any housing following the transfer of all the former Council housing to Whitefriars Housing Group (now Citizen) in September 2000. However, the Local Authority is legally required to have a scheme that allocates social housing. The aim is that those with the greatest need for housing are prioritised. 
  The Coventry Inspiration Book Awards have five categories of books to choose from for children and young people aged 4 to 18. Each category has eight books to read and enjoy. You can comment on the books you have read and vote for your favourite one. Find out more about the Coventry Inspiration Book Awards. 
 Coventry City Council employees Public, Private or Voluntary Sector employees Members of the public (payment at the time of booking) Help us by booking as far in advance as possible. It is good practice to book at least 24 hours in advance of the appointment but short notice and emergency appointments can be booked. The name, organisation and contact telephone number for the person booking the interpreter. If you are booking on someone else's behalf please provide the professional's name and the mobile number of who will be attending the appointment The name of the professional who will be undertaking the appointment The language you require and country of origin (if known) The name of the service user The time, date and estimated length of the appointment Purpose/description of the appointment The venue, and where the interpreter should report to. Service user's phone number, if you would like the interpreter to call them to confirm the appointment Purchase order number (for non-City Council organisations) Any additional information you think is required. All CITU Interpreters are DBS cleared Provide a high-quality, professional and confidential service Interpreters are experienced and native language speakers Interpreters adhere to CITU's Code of Practice Supported by City Council's policies and procedures Monday to Thursday: 9am to 5pm Friday: 9am to 4.30pm  Coventry Interpretation and Translation Unit (CITU) delivers a cost-effective interpreting and translation service to all Coventry-based statutory, voluntary, private sector and other organisations. CITU provides an accessible, confidential, equitable, quality service to people whose first language is not English or who have a sensory impairment. The Provision includes face-to-face interpreting, written translation, sign language and telephone interpreting, which is chargeable at the end of each month. People whose first language is not English can find it difficult to access services and discuss their needs with practitioners. Without a properly trained professional Interpreter, people may rely on a family member or a friend and confidentiality could be breached. Qualified and experienced Interpreters working for CITU provide accurate interpretation between service users and practitioners. They are committed to CITU's Code of Practice, which includes maintaining the confidentiality of the service users. At present CITU provides interpretation and translation services in a wide range of languages and it always endeavours to add more languages to its list, based on local needs. Please note for members of the public we require payment at the time of booking. You can email: CITU@coventry.gov.uk
You can telephone:  024 7697 5506 Booking reference number and appointment time Once you have provided all the details, we will give you a job reference number. If there is any problem booking the Interpreter, we will let you know otherwise Interpreter will meet you outside the venue. Should the interpreter fail to arrive on the agreed date and time, please call us on 024 7697 5506 by quoting the job reference number. At the end of the appointment, please complete and sign the Interpreter's referral form, including the end time. We will always inform you if there is a problem at our end. If you have a problem, or you need to cancel the appointment, please email or call during office hours on 024 7697 5506. Please remember if appointments are cancelled with less than 24 hours notice a minimum charge will incur. Your feedback is important to us. We welcome comments, compliments and complaints about our service and will investigate any complaints fairly and promptly. To make a comment or complaint, please email: CITU Manager: CITU@coventry.gov.uk If you require an interpreter in an emergency during office hours please use the above contact details. For out-of-hours please use the telephone interpreting service. This service is only available to Coventry City Council professionals. We use an external provider to access this service which requires a pin code and a set of instructions. To get your pin please contact the CITU office on the telephone number provided. Again, this service is only available to Coventry City Council professionals. We use an external provider to access this service which requires an access code. To get your access code please contact the CITU office on the telephone number provided. CITU provides high-quality written translations into various community languages. If you require this service please send your document preferably in Word format with the total number of words, if possible, and the deadline for the translations. Please remember all translations are done manually by experienced translators. This service is also available to members of the public but payment is required at the time the request is made. If the translation request is cancelled before the given deadline date you will be charged for the work that has already been completed. For further information, please ring 024 7697 5506. We have produced our own Code of Practice which includes "Guidelines for Working with Interpreters". We also provide training on, "a short guide for professionals".  Please contact us for further information. The above information is also available in leaflet form. Download a copy of the 'Information for practitioners leaflet'. Please note: All services, face-to-face interpretation, written translation, telephone interpreting and sign language, are chargeable at the end of each month. 
 Monday to Wednesday: 8.30am - 5.00pm Thursday: 8.30am - 2.30pm Friday and Saturday: 8.30am - 5.30pm  Coventry City Centre has had a vibrant market on this site since 1958 and we have been finalists and winner of many awards. Our normal opening times are: Individual stallholders may choose to open or close earlier or later than stated. Customers should check with individual stalls regarding their opening times. Coventry Market on Facebook Car parks in Coventry. Commercial Property Management privacy notice 
 Menu
NewsEventsGroups and choirsLearn musicMusic in your schoolResourcesAbout usContact us © Coventry Music Hub. All rights reserved. Design: HTML5 UP  Join a lesson or group or hire an instrument Full list of music groups with times and venues Our lesson prices, polices and term dates We're part of a new generation of Music Hubs, providing children and young people across Coventry, Warwickshire and Solihull with the opportunity to learn and create music. We are excited to announce this year's winner of the U18's Godiva Calling is... We are so excited to announce Furthering Talent Connect welcomes 10 new Hub partners, including Coventry Music! 
 Combat Archery Laser Tag Bushcraft Survival Skills © Coventry Outdoors Design: HTML5 UP  Coventry Outdoors offers a broad range of services for schools from early years through primary, secondary, special, schools, FE and HE as well as accommodating community clubs, faith groups, youth groups, and family and adult groups. Our approach is to provide a world-class Outdoor Education Service that equips children and young people with the vital skills, knowledge and experiences to assist them in their transition to adulthood whilst using the outdoor environment as an integral part of their learning and development.  View the transcript This May, we have a series of day camps available for children and young people who are aged 9-13 years old. Coventry Outdoors Activity Camps gets children and young people into the wild, where they will learn and experience an unforgettable adventure, from survival techniques to all sorts of outdoor activities and challenges, whilst making new friends and having lots of fun! We strongly believe that being outdoors fully-immersed in the natural environment helps children and young people explore different ways to boost self awareness and confidence, cultivate greater happiness and find greater wellbeing. Activities To book on to our Outdoor Activity Camps this May click HERE For more information e-mail OutdoorEducation@coventry.gov.uk 
  Our aim: We aim to do "all that a good parent would" for all looked-after children by encouraging and supporting their educational, social and emotional development. Our duty: Our duty as a council is “to safeguard and promote the welfare of a child looked after by them includes, in particular, a duty to promote the child's educational achievement" 
  
  
 The Coventry and District Credit Union which offers a range of banking services in the city The Clockwise Credit Union  Credit Unions are rapidly growing as they encourage people to get into the habit of saving. The Council is supporting the move as part of its efforts to work with partner agencies across the city to mitigate the effects of welfare reform and to steer people away from relying on payday loans. Credit Unions are not-for-profit financial co-operatives providing a range of financial services to members. They are managed and controlled by their members and are covered by the financial services compensation scheme. The unions have a wide range of members but for them to grow more members are needed. 
  Canley Crematorium allows us to offer a whole range of facilities that can be altered to meet your personal needs. In both of the chapels (Charter and Cannon Hill) every funeral service booked has a 45-minute time slot to allow a full 30 minutes for the funeral service to take place. In most cases, all individual requests can be catered for. Download and print our information leaflets. Coventry Bereavement Services do not charge for a cremation service for a child under the age of 16 years at the time of death. There will however be a charge for the Medical Referee to complete the documentation thus allowing the cremation to take place. 
 Help support customers who are leaving temporary, homeless, or hostel accommodation Ease exceptional pressure on people or families. Examples of exceptional pressure could include a breakdown of family relationships or disruption due to a major fire or flooding at home. Help people who are setting up home after leaving accommodation in which they received significant and substantial care and supervision (examples include leaving hospital or prison). Help people who are setting up home as part of a planned programme of resettlement (organised by someone like a Local Authority, voluntary organisation, housing association or registered charity) Help people who need help to stay in the community rather than enter accommodation to receive care (such as a residential care home or nursing home). Able to meet one of the above criteria A resident of Coventry which includes the address you are moving to Receiving one of the following benefits:
	
Income Support
Income-Based Jobseeker’s Allowance
Income-Related Employment & Support Allowance
Universal Credit
Pension Credit Income Support Income-Based Jobseeker’s Allowance Income-Related Employment & Support Allowance Universal Credit Pension Credit If you are moving outside of the Coventry Local Authority area. The new Local Authority might provide support or operate a similar scheme. If you are unsure of which local authority your new address comes under, please visit Check your Council Tax band - GOV.UK quoting your new postcode. If you are in a crisis and require immediate support with Food, Gas and/or Electricity. If your items are damaged, broken, or worn and you require financial support replacing these If you require support with flooring, curtains or any other items which are not listed on the application form or the essential items page.  The Community Support Grant was introduced to provide financial support to customers who are moving into a property with the essential household items needed to set up a home. The scheme will consider applications to To apply for a Community Support Grant, you must be: A Community Support Grant cannot provide support: However, Support may be available through the Household Support Fund. You can contact them on 08085 834333 by selecting option 1 for Household Support Fund or visit Household Support Fund for more information. 
 Coventry Canal Sowe Valley Cycle Route Coombe Country Park Kenilworth Greenway near the University of Warwick Ryton Pools Country Park also offers cycle hire and a 16 mile mountain bike trail for the more adventurous give way to pedestrians, wheelchair users and horse riders, making sure you give them plenty of room keep to your side of any dividing line be prepared to slow down and stop if necessary do not expect to cycle at high speeds Cycle Journey Planner Family Cycling - Cycling UK Introduction to Cycling - Sustrans Let's Ride - British Cycling  Taking the family out on a bike ride is a great way to get some fresh air, exercise and a dose of feel good! British Cycling's Let’s Ride website provides ideas and inspiration including suggested routes to ride near you. British Cycling routes are now also available to view on OS Maps online and in the OS Maps App. Find your way by bike using the online cycle journey planner or browse Open Cycle Map. If you have a Smartphone download the Bike Citizens App to navigate by bike. Download the app from Google Play or Apple App Store. Some cycle paths are shared with other users. Don't forget to: You should only cycle on pavements where signs show it is allowed. Bike and train is an ideal combination for longer journeys. The Transport for West Midlands website can help you plan your journey. Free cycle parking is available at Coventry, Canley, Coventry Arena and Tile Hill stations. West Midlands Trains, London North Western, Cross Country Trains and Avanti West Coast all carry cycles free-of-charge. A reservation is required on Avanti West Coast and is recommended on Cross Country Trains. 
 Learn to ride – For children and young people with little or no cycling experience. Cycle skills - For children and young people who can ride and want to develop their skills away from traffic Learn to ride – I have little or no cycling experience Cycle skills - I can ride but want to learn away from traffic On road - I would like to practice riding on the road. Bikeability Cycle Training is delivered in Coventry Schools. Check with your school office. School cycle training if you live work or study in Warwickshire Teaching your child to ride a balance bike - Cycling UK Teaching your child to ride a bike without stabilizers - Sustrans  Free cycle training for children and young people age 4 - 15 is taking place during the half-term holidays. Bikes and helmets are available to borrow at these sessions which are provided by British Cycling  Book online. Free cycle training for adults (16+) can be booked online. The types of sessions are: Bikes are available to borrow at the sessions which take place near the city centre. Book online The popular adaptive cycling sessions at Centre AT7 are suitable for the whole family and will begin indoors with a range of adaptive bikes suitable for all ages and abilities. Sessions are from 11am to 1pm on selected Sundays every month. Find out more. Please sign up for the cycle newsletter to find out about future events. 
  
 Processed lawfully, fairly and in a transparent manner Purpose limitation, collected for specified, explicit and legitimate purposes. Data minimisation, ensure personal data is adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which they are processed Accurate and where necessary kept up to date Storage limitation, kept for no longer than necessary for the purposes for which the personal data are processed Integrity and confidentiality, processed in a manner that ensures appropriate security of the personal data. The right to be informed of what information is held about them, what it is used for and to whom it may be shared The right of access to the information held The right to rectification - to have information corrected or destroyed The right to erasure or to be 'forgotten' The right to restrict processing (unless it is a mandatory function of the Council) The right to data portability The right to object Rights in relation to automated decision making and profiling.  Coventry City Council processes a considerable amount of information, including personal data about the citizens it serves, to allow it to provide services effectively.  The Council recognises that this information is important to their citizens and that it has a responsibility to these citizens regarding the information it holds about them  As such, it takes seriously its responsibilities to ensure that any personal information it collects and uses is done so proportionately, correctly and safely. How we use your personal data and who it may be shared with can be found in the Council's Privacy Policy. The Data Protection Act 2018 and General Data Protection Regulations sets out rules for processing personal information which Coventry City Council has to keep to when using your personal information. We are still required to have a registration with the Information Commissioner regarding the types of personal information we process and the purposes it is used for and who we share it with. You can see what is recorded on our Data Protection Notification entry if you search for Coventry City Council on the Information Commissioner's website. Our Data Protection Policy outlines our approach to compliance with the Act. The Data Protection Act 2018 gives individuals a number of rights: Individuals have the right to request their personal information we hold about them by making a subject access request. 
  
 Sheltered housing vacancies are advertised on Coventry Homefinder. All general social housing vacancies in Coventry are advertised on Coventry Homefinder.  Sheltered housing (also known as retirement housing) means having your own flat or bungalow in a block, or on a small estate, where all the other residents are older people as well. Most developments (or 'schemes') provide independent, self-contained homes with their own front doors. Many schemes also have their own 'manager' either living on-site or nearby, who run the scheme and help arrange any services residents need. Managed schemes will also usually have some shared facilities, such as a lounge for residents to meet, a laundry, a guest flat and a garden. Housing with Care, sometimes known as Extra Care, is housing designed for frailer adults and older people, with various levels of care and support available on site. People who live in Housing with Care have their own self-contained flats, their own front doors and a legal right to live in the property. It comes in many forms, including blocks of flats, bungalow estates and retirement villages. It is a popular choice among older people because it can sometimes be an alternative to a residential or nursing home. In Coventry there is a range of Housing with Care schemes run by both the Council and private companies. The Shared Lives Scheme is a personalised service that provides people with disabilities with the support they need to live an independent life in the community. This support is provided by Shared Lives Carers and their families using their family home. Shared Lives placements can be for an extended stay, short break, or short stay. A residential care home is accommodation that provides care and support for people who need regular help or supervision. There is a range of homes across Coventry that the Council either runs, or purchases services from. The Council also purchases a number of places outside the city (this can be for a range of reasons, such as specialist services being unavailable in the city or customer choice). In Coventry there is a range of different care homes, each catering for people with varying needs and disabilities, for example, dementia. Some care homes are registered to provide both residential and nursing care. A nursing home is similar to a residential home, but with a nurse or nurses, on site to support people with health-specific issues. The NHS may be able to help with the cost of these placements with NHS Continuing Healthcare funding. If you, a family member or someone you care for are thinking about residential or nursing care, why not contact Adult Social Care Direct to talk about whether you would benefit from an assessment of your needs before choosing a residential care or nursing home. There are often other alternative types of support which might suit your situation. 
 A free service for the removal of dead animals from all public land. All animals we collect are kept for a time before being taken away for cremation. If your pet is chipped, we will retrieve your details and tell you if we have removed the animal. We will also help you by advising you of other services that may be able to help. Remove all reported dead animals from public land within one hour. The exact location of the animal The type of animal A description of the animal  To report a dead animal please contact us. Report a dead animal using our online form. 
 Please do not touch or feed any birds, or touch feathers or bird droppings in public spaces. Please report dead wild birds you find in a public space, but stay away from them. When visiting open spaces such as parks, please keep dogs on a short lead to avoid contact with sick or dead birds. If you find a dead bird on your private property, please report and dispose of it in your general waste following these instructions. It is now a legal requirement for all bird keepers in Coventry to keep their birds housed and follow strict biosecurity measures, regardless of type of bird or size of flock. sudden and rapid increase in the number of birds found dead closed and watery eyes unresponsiveness incoordination and loss of balance drooping of the wings and/or dragging of legs twisting of the head and neck. if possible, wear disposable protective gloves when picking up and handling dead wild birds (if disposable gloves are not available, a plastic bag can be used as a make-shift glove). When the dead wild bird has been picked up, the bag can be turned back on itself and tied, enclosing the dead wild bird within the bag the bag containing the dead wild bird should then be placed in a second plastic bag (preferably leak proof). Care should be taken not to contaminate the outside of the bag remove any gloves or other hand coverings used, by turning them inside out and then place them in the second plastic bag, taking care not to touch the outside of the gloves with bare hands tie the second bag closed and dispose of in the normal household waste (general refuse lidded bin outside) wash hands thoroughly with soap and water. the dead wild bird can be buried, but not in a plastic bag the depth of the burial hole must be sufficient to prevent animals scavenging and gaining access to it – at least 60cm deep is advised and the location must not be near any watercourses, or likely to contaminate local water supplies if possible do not use your hands to move the bird wear disposable protective gloves when picking up and handling any dead wild birds (if disposable gloves are not available, a plastic bag can be used as a make-shift glove) dispose of any gloves or other hand coverings in a bag (preferably leak proof), being careful not to touch the outside of the gloves or other hand covering with your bare hands tie the second bag closed and dispose of in the normal household waste (general refuse lidded bin outside) wash hands thoroughly with soap and water  The Department for the Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra) and the Animal and Plant Health Agency (APHA) has confirmed there have been cases of avian flu or bird flu in wild birds such as geese throughout the UK. If you wish to report a dead bird, please call the Customer Service Line at Coventry City Council on 08085 834333 or report dead wild birds online. Bird flu is a virus that affects birds, including wild birds such as geese, swans, birds of prey, pigeons and poultry. As with other viruses, there are lots of different strains of the bird flu virus. The current outbreak seen in the UK can cause severe disease and death in birds. It is spread from bird to bird through contact and through droppings. Wild birds are often more resistant to bird flu than domestic birds and can carry and spread the virus without showing symptoms. Human infections with bird flu are rare and the risk to the general public is very low. However, some strains of the virus, have been associated with human disease. This is why we are encouraging people not to have close contact with dead, sick or injured birds. Of all the reported cases in humans worldwide, almost all have been associated with extremely close contact with infected birds (dead or alive). Close contact includes touching infected birds; contact with droppings; killing or preparing infected birds for cooking; inhalation of feather dust. Bird flu is not transmitted through properly cooked food. Cooked poultry and eggs are safe to eat in areas where outbreaks have occurred. Your health is very important. Please do not approach or touch any dead, ill or injured bird. If you are walking with your dog, keep your dog away from the infected bird. Please do not take an injured bird to the Coventry RSPCA branch or a vet. If you find a dead bird, please report any dead wild birds online or through the Customer Service line on 08085 834333. Someone from the team will attend the park or public place you have identified to remove the bird(s). If the public space is not owned by Coventry City Council, we will forward the information you provided for them to remove the bird. If you find small numbers of dead garden birds at your home you can dispose of them in your household waste bin, or you can bury them. For disposing or burying garden birds you can follow the advice given by the UK Government. You can report small numbers of dead garden birds to Garden Wildlife Health. If you find a dead bird of prey, for example a hawk, or a large number of dead garden birds, for example 5 or more of the same species, you can report this to the Animal and Plant Health Agency. Gardens are really important places for our birds.  Bird flu is predominantly being reported in bird species that are not commonly found in gardens, so the risk to you from wild birds is very small. There is no need to deter birds from coming to your garden. To minimise the risk further, if you see sick or dead birds, do not touch them, their droppings, or any water nearby and clean the birdfeeder and water features when you can. If you see a baby bird (fledgling) in your garden, leave it to its own devices. Its parents are almost certainly nearby and will look after it. If you came into contact with a bird with potential avian flu, please monitor for any flu-like symptoms such as fever and congestion. Please read the NHS website for further details. If your domestic animals (cats or dogs) go outside and could potentially eat sick or dead birds infected with bird flu viruses, there is a small chance they could be infected with bird flu. While it’s unlikely that you would get sick with bird flu through direct contact with your infected pet, it is possible. If your pet is showing signs of illness (such as fever, panting, lethargy) compatible with bird flu virus infection and has been exposed to infected (sick or dead) wild birds/poultry, you should monitor your pet’s health for signs of fever or infection and contact your veterinarian. It is now a legal requirement for all bird keepers in Coventry to keep their birds housed and follow strict biosecurity measures. This is regardless of type of bird or size of flock. Biosecurity measures and how to prevent bird flu from spreading on the GOV.UK website. If you keep poultry or a large number of captive birds, we encourage you to notify our Trading Standards Team by emailing tradingstandards@coventry.gov.uk  If the information received from the Animal Plant Health Authority (APHA) changes the team will contact you by email. If you are concerned about the health of your birds, speak to your private vet. If you suspect bird flu, you or your vet must report it immediately to the Animal and Plant Health Agency (APHA) even if the signs are mild. Report this immediately by calling APHA on 03000 200 301 How to maintain welfare whilst your birds are housed. Birds of prey or other species trained to fly, such as racing pigeons. 
  
  If you find yourself in any kind of difficulty, these organisations can offer free, independent and impartial advice Organisation Telephone Coventry Independent Advice Service 024 7652 1100 Coventry Citizens Advice 024 7625 2047 GamCare
			Help with your own or someone else’s gambling. 0300 555 2222 Step Change Debt Charity 0800 138 1111 National Debtline 0808 808 4000 Money Advice Service 0800 138 7777 
  If you find yourself in any kind of difficulty, these organisations can offer free, independent and impartial advice Organisation Telephone Coventry Independent Advice Service 024 7652 1100 Coventry Citizens Advice 024 7625 2047 GamCare
			Help with your own or someone else’s gambling. 0300 555 2222 Step Change Debt Charity 0800 138 1111 National Debtline 0808 808 4000 Money Advice Service 0800 138 7777 
  All councillors receive a basic allowance for the work they do as a councillor and some receive an additional special responsibility allowance where they have significant additional responsibilities. Councillors can also claim childcare, travel, subsistence and telephone expenses. You can view an annual breakdown of the allowances paid to Coventry City councillors and co-opted members since 2005. The Council is required to appoint an Independent Remuneration Panel to review the Member Allowance Scheme. An Independent Remuneration Panel reviewed the scheme in 2020/21 and made recommendations to Council on 8 December 2020 (see documents for item 61) The decisions can be seen in the minutes from this meeting at item 61. Further information about the current Member Allowances Scheme can be found in part five of the Constitution. 
 Capital (excluding the property) of less than £23,250 Be professionally assessed as requiring and be entering permanent residential / nursing care in a registered care home Own or have part legal ownership of a property, which is not benefitting from a property disregard, and ensure your property is registered with the Land Registry (if the property is not, you must arrange for it to be registered at your own expense) Have mental capacity to agree to a deferred payment agreement or have a legally appointed agent willing to agree this Have a responsible person willing and able to ensure that necessary maintenance is carried out on the property to retain its value you are liable for any such expenses. Insure your property at your expense. Pay any client contribution in a timely and regular manner; if you fail to pay the client contribution on a regular basis the council reserves the right to add this debt to the loan amount. There can be no other beneficial interests on the property, for example outstanding mortgages or equity release schemes, unless this is approved by the Local Authority.  The Deferred Payment Agreement Scheme is designed to help you if you have been assessed to pay the full cost of your residential care but cannot afford to pay the full weekly charge because most of your capital is tied up in your home. The scheme offers you a loan from Coventry City Council using your home as security. It doesn’t work in exactly the same way as a conventional loan. The Local Authority doesn’t give you a fixed sum of money when you join the scheme but pays an agreed part of your weekly care and support bill for as long as there is sufficient equity in the property. The deferred payment builds up as a debt which is cleared when the money tied-up in your home is released. You can choose to sell your home whenever you want to in order to pay back the debt, or you can pay the debt back from another source if you are able. When you enter into the Deferred Payment Agreement Scheme, you enter into a legal agreement with the Council by signing an agreement document. The Council then places what is called a ‘legal charge’ on your property to safeguard the loan. You will be charged for this expense, and it will be included in the DPA reclaim invoice when the funding ends. The agreement covers both the responsibilities of the Council and your responsibilities, one of which is to make sure that your home is insured and maintained. If you incur expenses in maintaining your home while you are in residential or nursing care, these will be allowed for (up to £144.00 per week) in the amount that you are assessed as being able to contribute each week from your capital and income. You can end the agreement at any time (for example if you sell your home) and the loan then becomes payable immediately. Otherwise the agreement ends on your death and the loan becomes payable 90 days later. The Council cannot cancel the agreement without your consent. Adult Social Care will make a decision as to whether you are eligible on completion of the Financial Assessment. In order to apply for the Deferred Payment Agreement Scheme you must have one of the following: Adult Social Care can consider circumstances outside of the usual criteria and agree a Deferred Payment Scheme on a discretionary basis where it is considered appropriate. If you have requested ASC funding, we will provide you with the DPA application form and leaflet. We advise you seek Independent Legal advice before entering a DPA. The application will need to be completed and submitted within 2 weeks from the start date of ASC funding. If you opt not to enter a DPA you will be deemed able to pay the full cost of your care and you will need to set up an agreement between yourself and the care home as a self-funder and make payments directly to the care home for the full cost of the placement. You will have to pay back the amount that Adult Social Care pays towards the cost of your care and support in your residential / nursing placement. If you opt not to sell your property and choose not to take advantage of the deferred payment agreement scheme, you will be deemed able to pay the full cost of your care and you will need to set up an agreement between yourself and the care home. We advise you seek independent financial advice upon indicating that this is your decision. Have a responsible person willing and able to ensure that you will pay a weekly contribution towards your care that you will have been assessed as being able to pay from your income and other savings. The Council will pay the part of your weekly charge that you cannot afford until the value of your home is realised. The part the Council pays is your ‘Deferred Payment’. You do not have to sell your home if you don’t want to as you may decide to keep your home for the rest of your life and repay out of your estate, or you may want to rent it out to generate income. If you do this, you will be expected to use the rental income to increase the amount you pay each week, thus reducing the weekly payments made by the Council, and minimising the eventual deferred payment debt. Interest can be charged on the loan in the same way a normal loan would be on money borrowed from a bank. The maximum interest rate that can be charged is fixed by the government. Currently the maximum rate that can be charged is based on the cost of government borrowing and will change on 1st January and 1st July every year. The current rate applicable from 1 January 2024 is 4.65%. The interest will be compounded on a four-weekly basis. The interest will apply from the day a Deferred Payment Agreement is entered into. Regular statements will be issued showing how the charge is being calculated and what the outstanding sum on the Deferred Payment account is. Coventry City Council will charge an administrative fee towards legal costs associated with arranging a deferred payment. The legal costs include Land Registry charges as well as the cost of Council Officers preparing the Deferred Payment Agreement. This charge will be applied to the funding reclaim invoice once the service has ended or funding has ended. You should take independent financial and legal advice to help you decide which course of action will be financially better for you. If there is an existing agreement for a third party ‘top up’, where a family member or other person puts additional money towards your placement, and you decide to take advantage of the Deferred Payment Agreement Scheme; you can add the cost of the ‘top up’ payments to your Deferred Payment Agreement Scheme loan, if the Council agrees that there is enough equity in your home. The government’s rules say that ‘top ups’ for people not using the Deferred Payment Agreement Scheme currently have to be paid for by somebody else, for example, a member of their family, so a deferred payment is currently the only way of paying the top up yourself without depending on a third party. You may choose to rent out your property, which could give you enough income to cover the full cost of your care. There are advantages to this as you will not accrue a debt, be liable for interest and administrative charges and your property will be occupied. Your tenant will be paying utilities and council tax which will reduce your outgoings. There are also various equity release products which may be suitable for your personal circumstances. You may also choose to pay the full cost of your care from your available income and savings/assets; or a family member may choose to pay some or all of this for you. You should take independent financial and legal advice to help you decide which course of action will be financially better for you. Please note: Acceptance of any application under the scheme is subject to you meeting the criteria for entering the scheme, and the local authority being able to obtain security in your property. Download our printable guide to the support available 
 Memory loss- particularly recent events. Problems thinking or reasoning- finding it hard to follow conversations or feeling confused in familiar environments. Emotions- feeling anxious, depressed or angry. struggle to remember recent events, although you can easily recall things that happened in the past; find it hard to follow conversations or programmes on TV; forget the names of friends or everyday objects; cannot recall things you have heard, seen or read; find it difficult to make decisions; notice that you repeat yourself or lose the thread of what you are saying; have problems thinking and reasoning; feel anxious, depressed or angry about your forgetfulness; and/or find that other people start to comment on your forgetfulness.  Dementia is a group of symptoms caused by damage to the brain. These symptoms include: If you have concerns about your own memory, or that of a loved one, you should contact your GP, who will be able to complete a memory test and decide what to do next. It is especially important to seek help if you: There are many factors that can cause memory problems, for instance: tiredness, stress, overwork, anxiety, depression, some physical illnesses and / or the side-effects of certain medications. And, of course, some of us have always been more absent minded. However, sometimes forgetfulness can be more than just a natural part of the ageing process, sometimes it can be an early sign of dementia. If memory problems are having an impact on your daily life or of someone you know please contact your GP to discuss. It can be scary to make the first step, but in cases where someone does have dementia, a timely diagnosis can be very important in ensuring they are able to maintain the quality of life that they had previously enjoyed and have access to appropriate support and services. Although dementia is incurable, timely diagnosis can allow access to medications that can be used to effectively slow down the progression of the illness. If in doubt, see your doctor. 
  
  
  Demolition of a building can cause problems for residents and businesses in the immediate area. It is, therefore, important that 6 weeks' notice is given prior to demolition starting and that all disruption is kept to a minimum. 
  Coventry Archives consists of the archives and Local Records Office and is a treasure trove of information on the history of Coventry and its citizens from medieval times to the present. The huge range of original documents includes books, maps, newspapers, electoral registers and building plans. Photographs, oral history, microfilms and internet sources provide further evidence of the history of the city and the people who have lived here. Whether you're researching for school or college projects, university dissertations, family history or just want to know more about the history of your house, the Coventry Archives is an invaluable free resource and an essential destination. Visit the Coventry Archives' website for more information. 
 You can report an empty home to us Find out what we do when a property is reported to us Why should I want to bring an empty home back into use? What you can do with your empty home  Homes become empty for a number of reasons. A home that is left empty may cause problems if it is left unattended and not secure. It can attract vandalism, tipping of rubbish, fly posting and anti-social behaviour, and soon become an eyesore. If it becomes very run down it may start to cause repair problems to the house next door and will affect the market value of other homes in the area. The council takes a proactive approach to bring empty homes back into use. 
  
  
  
  
  
 Direct Payment leaflet English Direct payments leaflet Arabic Direct payments leaflet Gujarati Direct payments leaflet Urdu  A direct payment is the sum of money that Coventry City Council will pay directly to you, so you can buy and arrange your own care and support, instead of the Council arranging it for you. Direct payments are part of the Government's Personalisation agenda, which puts you central to the support you receive, helping you live as independently as possible and giving you more choice and control. Read our direct payments policy. Adults, children, parents of disabled children, young people and carers of any age who have had an assessment and have been told they are eligible for support from the Council with their social care needs.   We are aware that uptake of Direct Payments is high with people from different ethnic groups, so as a result we have translated our main direct payment leaflet explaining what is a direct payment into Urdu, Arabic and Gujarati. 
  
  Apply for a blue badge You may require an eligibility assessment following your application and all successful applications incur a £10 charge. You will also need to provide us with any evidence needed to support your application along with a passport style photograph. Once your application has been approved, you can pay the £10 fee online. The Blue Badge scheme helps those with severe mobility problems who have difficulty using public transport to park close to where they need to go. This Department for Transport document explains the rights and responsibilities of badge holders. 
 Income Support Income-based Employment and Support Allowance (not contribution-based ESA) Income-based Jobseeker's Allowance (not contribution-based JSA) Guarantee Pension Credit (not Savings Pension Credit alone) Housing Benefit Working Tax Credit and/or Child Tax Credit provided that the annual income for the purposes of assessing entitlement to the tax credit is less than £15,050 Universal Credit (this includes any amount of Universal Credit - which has been progressively introduced from 2013 onwards as a replacement for working age benefits and tax credits).  The purpose of a Disabled Facilities Grant is to enable disabled people to have access in and around their home to help them continue to live independently Read our Housing Assistance Policy. A Disabled Facilities Grant can help, for example, to pay for a ramp, to widen doorways or replace a bath with a shower. The grant is usually "means tested" where your income and savings would be taken into account to decide whether or not a grant can be paid and what level of contribution (if any) you would need to find. A member of the Adaptations team can explain this in greater detail (but see the separate page section on Under £6,000 DFGs which outlines the discretionary removal of the means test for grants of this amount). The process consists of the following stages: You can apply for a Disabled Facilities Grant (or DFG) as an owner or a tenant of a property.  You will need to contact the Occupational Therapy Service on 024 7683 3003 or email ASCDirect@coventry.gov.uk. They will send you a referral form that you will need to complete and return to them outlining what difficulties you are experiencing due to your disability. Upon receipt of that, if appropriate, an Occupational Therapist will visit you. You may wish to have a relative, friend or carer with you at the visit. There is a range of lifts, hoists and equipment available to meet the needs of people with disabilities and it may be that your needs can be met by some other form of assistance. If a small scale adaptation (e.g. removal of a bath out & replacement with a shower or a ramp) is the most appropriate method of meeting your needs, the Occupational Therapist will make a referral to the Adaptations Team. If this is the case you will move straight to Stage 3. In more complex cases, the Occupational Therapist will carry out a joint visit with a Home Improvement Officer to assess the options and work together to find the most cost-effective solution to meet your needs. The work would need to be 'Necessary and Appropriate' for you and 'Reasonable and Practicable' in terms of the property and the environment that it is in. If the property cannot be adapted, the grant may have to be refused. If this should happen we would explore other avenues to meet your needs, including assisting you to find alternative accommodation (see separate section on Relocation Grants). If you are not happy with the proposals and you require a larger or alternative scheme to the one agreed by the Occupational Therapist, you can pay extra to fund this provided the scheme is still suitable for the disabled person's needs as determined by the Occupational Therapist. Please note that if the means-test applies (i.e. if the work is expected to cost more than £6,000), the Occupational Therapist may ask you to complete a 'notional' assessment to see what your contribution towards the grant may be.  If you are in receipt of a means-tested benefit – or if the work is for a child or young person under the age of 19 for whom child benefit is received – you will not have any contribution towards the cost of the eligible work.  The means-tested benefits are listed below: Only the income and savings/capital of the disabled person and his/her partner are taken into account. Evidence of any income and benefits you receive will be required including pay slips, pensions, disability benefits, etc. as well as evidence of any capital and savings that you have. If you have a contribution to pay you would need to pay it to the contractor when the work is finished. The link for the Notional Assessment is below.  Please ONLY complete this if you have been asked to by an Occupational Therapist: Apply for a (notional) Financial Assessment Before you apply for the grant it is imperative that you are intending on staying in the property for which you are applying for grant aid for at least 5 years from the date the work is completed, as that is a condition of the application.  If you are a tenant, your landlord will need to sign a certificate to confirm that you can continue to reside in the property for at least 5 years and that they are happy for the property to be adapted. The maximum grant that the Council will approve is £30,000 including any ancillary costs (e.g. Legal fees, Land Registry fees). It is anticipated that very few schemes should cost as much as this but you would be advised in advance of the grant approval if this were to be the case as you would need to ensure that you could fund any costs above the grant maximum. You would also need to bear in mind that unforeseen works may occur when the work is in progress which could further increase the cost. In these cases, additional grant aid may be considered, but if the grant has already reached the maximum you would need to fund this yourself (but see the section on Discretionary Top-Up Grant, which may be available in certain circumstances). You also need to be aware that charges are levied on all owner-occupied properties where the total cost of the grant exceeds £5,000. If the property is sold within 10 years of completion of the grant works - for any reason - funds above the £5,000 are reclaimed and recycled back into the DFG Programme. This does not apply to grants that are less than £5,000 and the maximum amount that the Council can recover on a single grant is £10,000. The Home Improvement Officer will assist you by completing forms on your behalf and guiding you through the process.  More detailed information about the process will be provided at the time of your application Once the financial assessment has been carried out and it has been established that you wish to proceed with your application, the Home Improvement Officer will arrange for the preparation of any working drawings as necessary. If this is not necessary you will move straight to Stage 5. If you would prefer to make your own arrangements for plans to be drawn you may do so but you would be responsible for paying any architect's fees although the costs may be reimbursed once the grant has been approved and an acceptable invoice received (provided they are reasonable and the total cost of work and fees does not exceed the maximum grant).  If you are having private work carried out at the same time, or a larger adaptation than recommended, the cost of this - and of the plans - would need to be funded by yourself and would be additional to any contribution that you may have to find as a result of the means test. We hold a list of contractors that have shown their capability of carrying out this type of work and are allocated on a rotation basis. You can, if you wish, appoint your own contractor but they will need to have at least £5million Public Liability Insurance and be a member of an SSIP (Safety Schemes in Procurement) organisation. If you select your own contractor you will also need to be satisfied that the contractor is capable of carrying out the type of work that has been recommended because the contract in all cases is between the client and the contractor.  Although we would seek to resolve any issues you may have, we do not recommend any individual contractors or guarantee the work that they do. For larger schemes, we will ask for at least three estimates. Ultimately, the Council will approve the grant based on the lowest estimate received. If you wish to pay extra for another contractor to carry out the work you may do so, provided they meet the relevant criteria. Most of the smaller, straightforward schemes have 'fixed-costs' attached to them and where this is the case, we would only normally ask one contractor if they are prepared to carry out the work for this amount. Before the grant can be approved all the necessary documentation needs to be in place. This includes the completed application forms, proof of ownership, sketch plans agreed by you and the Occupational Therapist, estimate(s) and Planning Permission/Building Regulations approval (where applicable). You will then be sent an approval letter which will advise of the amount approved for your grant and of the approval expiry date. The work should be completed within twelve months of the approval date, after which time the Council has the discretion to withdraw the offer of grant aid. Before work commences the Home Improvement Officer may carry out a pre-site visit with you and the contractor. At this meeting, you should be given an approximate start date and it is a good idea to ask any questions that you may have about the work at this meeting whilst the Officer and the contractor are both in attendance. If there is any genuine unforeseen work that becomes evident whilst the works are in progress, the contractor may request additional costs. Dependent upon the nature of the work, we may consider agreeing extra grant aid. If the adaptation is a large one, the contractor may request interim payments when a proportion of the work is complete. They will need to ask you to sign to agree any such payments and we will inspect to make sure the work is of an acceptable standard. When the work is complete the Occupational Therapist will be informed so they can advise on any additional equipment that may need to be ordered for you (e.g. a shower chair). Once the contractor has completed the work they will ask you to sign to say you are satisfied with the work for the payment to be made and an Officer will then need to arrange to inspect the work to ensure that it has been completed in line with the approved plans and that it is of an acceptable standard. We will then make the payment upon receipt of all the necessary documentation. If there is any contribution that you are responsible for, the contractor will usually request this amount from you upon completion of the work. The payment will not be made to the contractor until both you and the Home Improvement Officer are happy with the standard of the work. If there is a Building Regulations application the Building Control Officer will also need to carry out a completion inspection. The contractor should send all paperwork (invoices, certificates, instruction booklets, etc.) directly to you. We recommend that you keep these in a safe place, as they may be required if and when the property is sold (but if this is the case, please be aware that the grant, or part thereof, may be reclaimed by the Council as explained in Stage 2). If you have had a shower installed, please remember to complete the warranty and send it back to the manufacturer in case any defects occur. However, if any problems occur within the first twelve months, your first point of contact would be the contractor to make sure that it is not an installation defect. 
  
 between 9.30am and 11pm, Monday to Friday all day at weekends and on public holidays trains in the Blue Zone from 9.30am to 11.59pm trams from 9.30am until the last service of the day travel before 9.30 am parking register your card online have an eligible disability that's expected to last at least 12 months are aged 5 or over are registered blind or partially sighted are severely or profoundly deaf in both ears cannot talk cannot walk easily cannot use both arms have a learning disability have a medical condition that means you can't get a UK driving licence Birmingham Coventry Dudley Sandwell Solihull Walsall Wolverhampton Disabled person's travel pass application form Disabled person's travel pass application form - large print Disabled person's travel pass application form - easy read a new, passport-style colour photo your full name and address the 16-digit number on the front of your travel pass Businesses Education Job centres Young people Who we are What we do Our strategy Our apps     Accessibility statement Terms and conditions Policies  We use cookies to help you with journey planning and relevant disruptions, remember your login and show you
        content you might be interested in. If you're happy with the use of cookies by West Midlands Combined Authority
        and our selected partners, click 'Accept all cookies'. Or click 'Manage cookies' to learn more. If you’re disabled, you might be able to get a free bus pass for travel anywhere in England. The pass lets you travel for free during off-peak times: If you live in the West Midlands, you can use your pass on the buses from 9.30am until 11.59pm. You can also get free travel on: If you do not live in the West Midlands, contact your local authority to apply. If you want to travel before 9.30am, you can get a £1.50 single fare on National Express West Midlands buses. Show your travel pass to the driver and ask for a £1.50 single ticket. If you often travel before 9.30 am, you can get a pre-9:30 add-on ticket. Use our ticket finder to find pre-9.30 add-on tickets. If you’re under 18 and have a disabled travel pass, you’ll get a pre-9.30 top-up loaded onto your pass. This happens automatically - you do not need to do anything. The top-up lets you use your pass on the bus before 9.30 am in term time. You can also use your travel pass as a pay-as-you-go card. This means you can use it to pay for the following: To use your travel pass as a pay-as-you-go card, you need to either: You can get a disabled person's travel pass if you: You may be eligible if you: You’ll need to include proof of your disability when you apply. The application form explains how to do this. You can get a West Midlands disabled person's travel pass if you live in the West Midlands. You must live at a property where council tax is paid to one of these councils: Read more about how we check if you're eligible. You can apply for a disabled person's pass online. It's the fastest way to apply and only takes around 15 minutes. You'll need to upload copies of evidence that supports your disability. We'll guide you and let you know what you need to provide for your disability. You can also apply with a paper form: 1. Download one of these application forms: 2. Fill in the form. 3. Send the application and supporting evidence to the address on the form. We’ll write to you around 3 months before your pass expires. Depending on your disability, your pass might be automatically renewed. Or you might have to apply again. Your letter will tell you what to do. You can update your personal details online if your name or address changes. You can update your photo by email or by post. Send your new photo to Customer Services. You'll need to send us: Customer Services - Ticketing
                    Transport for West Midlands
                    16 Summer LaneBirminghamB19 3SD Submit an enquiry  Don’t miss out on vital information, subscribe today and be in the know at all times. 
 specialist equipment, for example a computer if you need one because of your disability non-medical helpers, for example a British Sign Language (BSL) interpreter or specialist note taker extra travel to attend your course or placement because of your disability other disability-related study support, for example having to print additional copies of documents for proof-reading you do not already have one your current one does not meet your study needs  Disabled Students’ Allowance (DSA) is support to cover the study-related costs you have because of a mental health problem, long-term illness or any other disability. This can be on its own or in addition to any student finance you get. The type of support and how much you get depends on your individual needs - not your household income. You do not need to pay back DSA. Undergraduate and postgraduate students can get up to £26,948 a year for support. Undergraduate and postgraduate students can get up to £26,291 a year for support. You can get help with the costs of: DSA does not cover disability-related costs you’d have if you were not attending a course, or costs that any student might have. You may get a new computer if you’re assessed as needing one because: When buying a new computer, you’ll need to pay the first £200. The DSA team will send you more information about this after your needs assessment. You may be asked to attend an assessment centre to work out what help you need. This is known as a ‘needs assessment’. You’ll get a letter telling you how to book your needs assessment. You do not need to pay for it. You’ll need to give a copy of the eligibility evidence you used in your initial application to your needs assessor before your assessment. After the assessment, you’ll get a report listing equipment and other support you can get for your course. Do not buy any equipment until you’ve been assessed - you will not be reimbursed for it. Money is paid either into your bank account or directly to the organisation providing the service or equipment. You’ll find out how your support will be paid to you after your needs assessment. 
 You are in receipt of one of the qualifying benefits listed below You are a carer registered with Carers Trust Heart of England You are a  Foster Carer registered with Coventry City Council You are a Student [NUS] Asylum Seeker status You are a young person aged 16-19 years in full-time education Attendance Allowance Bereavement Support Payment Carer’s Allowance Council Tax support (not single person occupancy) Disability Living Allowance Employment and Support Allowance Housing Benefit Incapacity Benefit Income Support Industrial Injury Disablement Benefit Industrial Death Benefit Jobseeker’s Allowance Pension Credit Personal Independence Payment Severe Disablement Allowance Universal Credit War Pension Disability / Armed Forces Compensation Working Tax Credit (not Child Tax Credit alone)    Are you eligible for Go CV+?  The answer is YES, if one or more of these apply to you:  Here’s the full list of qualifying benefits  At venues, sometimes a Go CV and also a Go CV+ price is shown. If you are eligible and have a fully validated account, a greater discount will be added to your card and you will pay the lower Go CV+ price. If you sign into your account you can see whether you have the Go CV+ discount added to your account (Level 2).  You will need to validate this annually to keep the Go CV+ discount. Proof of eligibility will be required and can be verified online from your account.  Login and go to ‘My Account’ where you can upload your documents.  Alternatively you can visit our sign-up centres by taking evidence such as a letter from the Department of Work and Pensions, letter from the Council or Home Office, or NUS card with you. There is only one Go CV account – Go CV+ means you are entitled to Level 2 discounts. Level [0] means that action is required to update your account. You will not be able to receive any discounts until this has been done. Level [1] means you are eligible for standard Go CV discount (Coventry resident). Level [2] means you are a Coventry resident with the highest Go CV+ level of discount. Not yet a Go CV member, you can register HERE  
    The Go CV card is a FREE scheme for Coventry residents. You can benefit from offers and discounts on events, activities and attractions as well as savings from local businesses. There are even greater savings for those who qualify for Go CV+ Register now and collect your Go CV card Sign-up and collection centres Use your Go CV card to get great discounts!    
 Housing Benefit, or Universal Credit with an award for rent costs  If you cannot afford to pay your rent you may be able to claim extra help from the Council. This extra help is called Discretionary Housing Payments (DHPs). The Council has a limited amount of money allocated for paying DHPs so we will not be able to pay every claim. Our main priorities are to help prevent people from becoming homeless and to ease financial pressure for vulnerable people who live in Coventry. To be able to make a claim you must be a resident of Coventry and must be getting: 
  
 The day, date, location and time that the incident occurred A description of the person in charge of the dog at the time the incident occurred A description of the dog that they were walking If they arrived in a vehicle a description of the vehicle How far away you were when the incident occurred What kind of view you had.  Report dog fouling on public land Dog foul carries the eggs of the roundworm (Toxocara Canis), which can be a serious health risk, especially to children. The Council keeps to the Clean Neighbourhoods and Environment Act 2005. This means if you are a dog owner and your dog fouls on any land to which the public has access, you are responsible for cleaning it up. If you fail to clean it up, then you commit an offence for which you may receive a fixed penalty notice of £100. Persistent offenders could find themselves in court, where they can set much higher fines. The exact location of the dog fouling. 
 Controlling stray dogs, under the Environmental Protection Act 1990. Advice on dangerous or aggressive dogs, as defined by the Dangerous Dogs Act 1991 and Dogs Act 1871. Issuing fixed penalty notices for dog fouling, as specified by Anti - Social Behaviour, Crime & Policing Act 2014. Putting up 'No Dog Fouling' notices and ground stencils. Investigating dog fouling in private gardens that is causing a nuisance by smell or flies under the Environmental Protection Act 1990. The issuing of animal-related licences for pet shops, zoos, boarding, breeding and riding establishments, and for dangerous, wild and performing animals.  Coventry's dog enforcement (formally animal welfare) and dog warden team, control stray dogs and provides many other services in relation to animals, including: If you wish to contact the team regarding any issues relating to the above, please email dogenforcement@coventry.gov.uk. Please do not call us - our phone is for live incidents only (such as stray dogs) and you will be asked to send an email instead, please be patient and a Dog Enforcement Officer will respond to your email. 
  To report an overflowing dog waste bin, or request a new dog waste bin, please contact Customer Services. 
  
 Search for your street. Select your street. Use the "Find out which bin will be collected when" button.   We will start charging for brown-lidded bin collection from June. Find out more about the collection service To view your calendar: Type a partial or whole road name. For example, High or High Street. 
  We are no longer offering a skip hire service. You can book a skip for domestic or commercial use with Tom White Waste or other companies in the area. 
 Search for your street. Select your street. Use the "Find out which bin will be collected when" button.   We will start charging for brown-lidded bin collection from June. Find out more about the collection service To view your calendar: Type a partial or whole road name. For example, High or High Street. 
 Nappies Sanitary towels Plastic bags Leaves and rubbish Oils and fats Food scraps Grout/plaster/cement/paint and other builders’ waste.  This takes wastewater and sewage from your sink, bath and toilet etc, direct to the sewer.  It is the responsibility of the property owner to maintain and keep the drain running freely. If your sewer is blocked or defective you should contact Severn Trent Water. 
 The need to ensure, so far as practicable, safe entry to and exit from premises The need to facilitate, so far as practicable, the passage of vehicular traffic on the highway network The need to maintain safe passage for pedestrians and cyclists by ensuring vehicles do not overhang the pavement a minimum of 4.0 metres deep at its shortest point by 2.4 metres wide If a new access is to lead to a garage there must be a minimum depth of 5.0 metres to accommodate door opening. The property frontage on the highway is a minimum of 12 metres wide, and The property fronts a classified road where a second crossing would enable the formation of a drive and the garden is deep enough to accommodate this so that vehicles do not have to reverse either onto or off the highway; or The property is in a street where the majority of properties have off-street parking and demand for kerb side parking would not be adversely affected.  A crossing across a public footpath or verge for your vehicle to get to your property from the road is known as a 'dropped kerb', ‘crossover’ or ‘vehicle crossing’. It is an offence under Section 184 of the Highways Act 1980, to cross a kerb, verge or footway in a motor vehicle except at a crossing point that has been approved by the Council. The Council is the Highway Authority for all public roads in the City of Coventry. In determining whether to grant permission to an application under s184 of the Act, the Council must consider the need to prevent damage to the pavement or verge and shall also have regard to: In determining permission, the Council will also need to consider any environmental and other factors, such as the presence of trees, green spaces, other obstacles to construction and the impact the application will have on the requirements for on-street parking in the vicinity. Residents wishing to have a vehicle crossing constructed are required to apply to the Council, which in light of the above considerations, may approve the request with or without modifications, may propose alternative works, or may reject the request. Each case will always be considered on its own merits. The construction of a vehicle crossing may require planning permission as well as consent from the Highway Authority. If the proposed crossing fronts onto a classified road, full planning permission will be required. See a list of classified roads within Coventry.
Planning permission is also required, irrespective of the classification of road, to lay impermeable private driveways of over 5 sq. metres in area, in order to prevent rainwater from running off directly onto roads, as this can contribute to flooding.
Where full planning permission is not required, applicants can choose to self-certify that a proposed vehicle crossing would meet Permitted Development requirements or they can make a formal application and apply for a certificate of lawfulness.
A separate planning application fee has to be paid for all applications for a certificate of lawfulness or a full planning application. These planning applications are usually decided within 8 weeks. Within this time the officers will also carry out an inspection to confirm that the forecourt dimensions are within the requirements of the policy and any other matters relating to the application including drainage are picked up within the process. Find out which kind of planning permission you need. A vehicle crossing is where a pavement is reinforced to take the weight of a car or light goods vehicle and the kerb is dropped to form a ramp. If residents wish to drive across the public pavement or verge to gain access to park on their property, they should apply to the Council to have a vehicle crossing constructed. The policy is closely tied into the Age-Friendly policy and the Council Plan, which recognise the need for a clear pavement strategy. The Council aims to provide clear, safe walking surfaces for the public and especially for older people. Damaged pavements present hazardous and dangerous walking conditions, so permitting crossings to be constructed helps to reduce the number of locations where problems persist. A vehicle hardstanding within the property frontage must have the following dimensions: There must be sufficient space within the curtilage (hardstanding area around front of property) of a site to ensure that a parked vehicle does not overhang the pavement or obstruct doorways and that manoeuvring on and off the road can be done safely. It is the applicant's responsibility to ensure there is no obstruction of the pavement in order to keep pedestrians, and particularly vulnerable users safe. The width of a crossing and its position relative to the frontage of the property may be influenced by a number of factors such as widths of road, pavement or verge, and the width and depth of the area available for parking. In general, the width of a crossing is limited to that necessary to facilitate its proper use.
The standard crossing width (lowered kerb length) is 2.7 metres. This is the normal width appropriate in most cases. In exceptional circumstances, dependent on site conditions, the maximum crossing width (lowered kerb height) for an individual property of 3.6 metres may be applied.
Where one exists, the boundary fence, wall or hedge should be retained for that portion of the frontage not covered by the footway crossing. This is to protect the street scene and pedestrians from motor vehicles manoeuvring on the footway. Where the occupiers of two adjoining properties share a driveway and wish to build a double width crossing to serve the two sites, one occupier should act on behalf of both parties although the application must be signed by both parties.
In order to maintain the safety of pedestrians on the footway and to retain on-street parking provision, the maximum crossing width (lowered kerb height) for a shared access should not exceed 4.5 metres. The shared drive must normally be positioned centrally between both properties. Where one exists, the boundary fence, wall or hedge should be retained for that portion of any frontage not covered by the footway crossing. Where a shared access is not feasible, to provide adequate facilities for pedestrians individual crossings shall normally be separated by at least one kerbstone (0.9m of full kerb face) or an absolute minimum of 0.6m of full face kerb. Normally, to limit any impact on pedestrians using the footway and to minimise the loss of kerb side parking, only one crossing will be permitted per property. However, a second crossing may be permitted where: It is desirable to minimise the number of new accesses (and associated stopping and turning manoeuvres) onto main roads in order to maintain their importance as traffic routes in Coventry’s road hierarchy. Subject to the technical design standards being met, there will be a presumption that an access onto an 'A' classified road will only be considered for approval if there are no other means of vehicular access to the property concerned. Planning permission is always required for access onto classified roads. Should an applicant for the construction of a domestic vehicle footway crossing be dissatisfied with the response and make representations to that effect, the Council's corporate complaints policy will apply. Where planning permission is refused, the applicant will have a statutory right of appeal dealt with by the Planning Inspectorate. 
 Break drug supply chains Deliver a world class treatment and recovery system Achieve a shift in the demand for drugs Reduce Drug and Alcohol related crimes Reduce Drug and Alcohol supply Reduce overall Drug and Alcohol use Reduce Drug and Alcohol-related harms and deaths Increase engagement in Drug and Alcohol treatment Improve long-term recovery Refer yourself or somebody else to CGL here Refer yourself or somebody else to Positive Choices Here Alcohol Units Alcohol Support Tips on cutting down Alcohol Drinkchat - uses trained professionals from the national alcohol support helpline, Drinkline. You can have a web chat with someone at Drinkchat between 9am-2pm on weekdays. Drinkline – Speak to someone at drinkline on 0300 123 1110 (Weekdays 9am – 8pm, Weekends 11am – 4pm) Heroin Addiction Cocaine Addiction FRANK A-Z of drugs FRANK - Feeling pressured to take drugs? FRANK - Advice for parents and carers who are concerned about a child. For friendly, confidential advice call FRANK 24 hours 7 days a week on 0300 123 6600 or text FRANK 82111.  The National Government published “From Harm to Hope”, which is a 10-year plan to cut crime and save lives by reducing the supply and demand for drugs and delivering a high-quality treatment and recovery system. The plan is aiming to: You can view the full plan at: From harm to hope: A 10-year drugs plan to cut crime and save lives Locally Coventry has its own strategy with our vision for people in Coventry to live their lives free from the harms associated with substance abuse. Our six key priorities are: See the Strategy Summary - Coventry Drug and Alcohol Strategy Summary 2023 - 2033 You can view the full Strategy - Coventry Drug and Alcohol Strategy 2023 - 2033 Drug and Alcohol Support Available in Coventry: Change Grow Live (CGL) Coventry:  Offer information, advice and guidance to anybody who is looking to make a change around their use of Drugs or Alcohol. For more information call CGL on 024 7601 0241 or email them on coventry.info.cgl.org.uk. CGL Coventry is based at 1 Lamb Street, Coventry City Centre, CV1 4AE. Positive Choices Coventry: Coventry’s Young Person’s service supports individuals aged 18 and younger and will offer advice and support around drinking and drugs, relationships, and sexual health. For more information call Positive Choices on 024 7655 3130 or email them on coventryyp.infor@cgl.org.uk Healthy Lifestyles Coventry: Proves advice and coaching for individuals looking at cutting down or stopping drinking alcohol. For more information call HLC on 0800 122 3780 or email them on info@hlscoventry.org. HLS Coventry is based on the 2nd Floor, John Sinclair House, Canal Basin, Coventry CV1 4LY. Wider Information and Advice for Alcohol: NHS Alcohol Advice – Advice and support for reducing the amount of alcohol you drink. Drinkaware - Help with learning about the impact of alcohol on you, your family or friends Alcoholics Anonymous - AA is focused solely on the persona; recovery and continued sobriety of individual alcoholics who turn to the fellowship for help. If you need help with a drinking problem either phone the national helpline on 08—9177 650 or email help@aamail.org Wider Information and Advice for Drug Use: NHS Drug Addiction: Getting Help – If you need treatment for a drug addiction, you’re entitled to NHS care in the same way as anyone else who has a health problem. Adfam - Adfam is a national charity who are tackling the negative effects of drugs and alcohol on family members and friends. FRANK – Friendly, confidential drugs advice. FRANK is a national drug education service, and it aims to reduce the abuse of all drug use. It provides the facts and figures to adults and young people about the harms of drug use. 
 Access to the site is by booking only. Visitors arriving without a pre-booking will not be permitted access. Only cars, small vans, 4x4s or cars with trailers are permitted. The Centre is only open for use by Coventry residents, neighbouring councils have their own facilities. To ensure that only Coventry residents are using the site, we will be asking anyone who books a slot to please bring with them proof of residency. This can be a recent utility bill, council tax bill (printed or online) or a driving licence. You will be asked to show this by our security personnel upon entry. Staff will be able to advise you but will not be able to help unload your vehicle, so please only bring items that you can safely unload yourself. Face coverings are not required when outside of the vehicle. The number of vehicles allowed into the site will be restricted and you may need to queue. Visitors must bring proof of address (printed or online) such as a recent Council Tax bill or driving licence as they will be required to show proof of residency. This will need to be shown through a closed window. If you are unable to provide this information you will not be permitted access. Visitors bringing any sharp items should bring gloves or protective clothing to avoid any incidents. Staff will be able to advise you but will not be able to help unload your vehicle, so please only bring items that you can safely unload yourself We will not tolerate any aggressive or abusive behaviour towards our staff or other site users.  The household recycling and disposal centre (the tip) is free to use for the people of Coventry. If you do not live in Coventry, you should visit your local recycling centre in Nuneaton & Bedworth, North Warwickshire, Warwick, Solihull or Rugby Do not turn up more than 10 minutes before your appointment. Queuing outside the site will be monitored and if you arrive outside of your booked time slot, or traffic levels become dangerous, you may be asked to leave and return at another time. For information on what you can take to the tip please see items accepted, or A-Z of rubbish and recycling for information on specific items. Wash your hands or use hand sanitiser as soon as you get home. The current re-use and recycling rate is 69% Bar Road off London Road, Coventry, CV3 4AN.  For information on what you can take to the tip please see items accepted, or A-Z of rubbish and recycling for information on specific items. Staff will be able to advise you but will not be able to help unload your vehicle, so please only bring items that you can safely unload yourself. 
 online via the app online via the website Go to the app once installed on your device You will need your library card number (the 14-digit number on the back of your library card) You will need your PIN (a 4-digit number you will have been issued with when you joined the library). Don’t know your PIN? Request your PIN. If you need your PIN urgently, phone any library during opening hours. Sign in; type in and select Coventry City Library, enter your library card number, enter your PIN If you have an Android device (most Samsung, Sony etc devices), the Borrow Box app is available through the Play Store. If you have an iOS device (all Apple devices), the Borrow Box app is available through the App Store. If you have an Amazon Kindle Fire device, the Borrow Box app is available through the Amazon Appstore. Go to the Borrow Box website You will need your library card number (the 14-digit number on the back of your library card) You will need your PIN (a 4-digit number you will have been issued when you joined the library). Don’t know your PIN? Request your PIN. If you need your PIN urgently, phone any library during opening hours. Sign in; enter your library card number, enter your PIN Use the help page on the Borrow Box website If you have suddenly lost access to Borrow Box (i.e. it has logged you out), your library card has probably expired. Renew your library card. If you can’t log in to Borrow Box, you can visit us, or phone us, or email libraries247@coventry.gov.uk and we will check your membership record for any blocks on your ticket. Blocks are automatically applied if you owe us over £10, have overdue items on your card, have reported your card as lost or stolen, or have been banned from using the library service. For everything else, contact the Borrow Box support team, email support@bolindadigital.com  The e-audiobooks and e-books service is provided by Borrow Box. You can use Borrow Box for free as part of your library membership. Not a member? Join the library. You can use Borrow Box; Watch our helpful video:  The Borrow Box app is available for smartphones and tablets that run the Android or iOS operating system (including Amazon Kindle Fire devices - these run the Android OS and the Borrow Box app is available in the Amazon app store). You will need to visit the app store for your device and download the app. The app is the easiest way to use the service. 
  
 Informal resolution – this is normally done through the EHC Plan co-ordinator and the family, who can access support from a third-party such as the local SEND IASS. Mediation First tier SEND Tribunal  An Education, Health and Care Plan is a legal document which describes your child's difficulties and the special help that is needed to meet those difficulties. The Local Authority will carefully consider all the information collected during the assessment and we will write a Plan for your child if it is clear that agreed criteria have been met. These criteria broadly cover the level of difficulty shown by the child, and what has been done to address those difficulties. All mainstream schools are required to contribute the first £6,000 of additional educational support for a pupil from their notional SEN budget. Pupils should only require an Education, Health and Care Plan if they need support above what is ordinarily available. Find out what Coventry expects schools to put in place before a request for an EHCP. Therefore in only the most exceptional circumstances will a Plan be required to provide additional funding to the school. We will discuss the contents of the Plan with you and the school to agree how best the Plan can describe what special help is needed. We will always begin by trying to meet your child's needs in a mainstream school although in some cases it may be necessary to consider the provision available within specialist provision. If you would like more information about the arrangements for producing and reviewing Education, Health and Care Plans in Coventry you may wish to talk to your child's educational provider or to the Statutory Assessment Service. You can also ask the SEND Information, Advice and Support Service for impartial information and advice. Whilst we will try to ensure that the Education Health and Care needs assessment and/or Plan are co-produced with children, young people and their families, sometimes there may be disagreement for which a solution is difficult to find. In Coventry, we aim to find this solution in one of three ways: 
  
  
 From April 2024, eligible working parents of 2-year-olds will be able to access 15 hours childcare support. From September 2024, 15 hours childcare support will be extended to eligible working parents of children from the age of 9 months to 3-year-olds. From September 2025, eligible working parents of children under the age of 5 will be entitled to 30 hours of childcare a week.
	 
	
How many hours of childcare can parents access?


Age
Eligibility
Now
April 2024
September 2024
September 2025




9-23 months
Eligible working families
N/A
N/A
15
30


2 year olds
Current 2 year old funding criteria
15
15
15
15


2 year olds
Eligible working families
N/A
15
15
30


3 and 4 year olds
All
15
15
15
15


3 and 4 year olds
Eligible working families
30
30
30
30  The  Early Education Funding Entitlement Handbook provides parents and carers with information about all types of Early Education Funding, including the criteria and application processes. Further information regarding support with childcare costs can be found on the Childcare Choices Leaflet. Starting from April 2024, existing childcare support will be expanded in phases. By September 2025, most working families with children under the age of 5 will be entitled to 30 hours of funded childcare. These phases are as follows: Like the existing offer, these hours can be accessed across 38 weeks of the year (during school term time), or up to 52 weeks where the provider is offering a stretched model of delivery. Find out more information on the GOV.UK website. 
  Early Help is a partnership of organisations that provide help, advice and support to children, young people and families. The aim of Early Help is to help you as soon as possible and prevent problems from getting worse by providing you support, as early as possible. Early Help services can help families, children and young people - pre-birth to 19 years old and 25 years old where there are special educational needs or disabilities. 
  
  
 A suitable education A full-time education An efficient education Opportunities to socialise with other children and build friendships. This could be done through social activities or clubs based on your child's hobbies and interests. Space at home where learning can take place The time - parents who are in employment will have to determine if they can accommodate a full-time education as well as work commitments. What are your child's aspirations? Will your home education take steps towards achieving this? Does your child want to sit any examinations? This can be done but please keep in mind it can be costly as a private pupil. If you want to home educate, once you come off the roll of a school, your place will be allocated to someone on the waiting list. If you want to go back into schools you will need to apply through the admissions process. Please be aware, that there may not be places available at the school you apply for so you may not get the school of your choice.  Families who elect to home educate do so for a variety of reasons. The decision to home educate should not be taken lightly. It can be very rewarding to educate your child at home but it does require a serious time commitment, patience, energy and the ability to provide appropriate motivation, resources and equipment. You will need to decide if you have the skills and ability to educate your child or if you will need to purchase services to help you do this e.g. online learning packages or tutors. Please keep in mind there is no financial support available when you home educate. In addition, if your child receives free school meals or pupil premium support, this will not apply when home educated and will be lost. You will also lose entitlement to attend HAF programme events. From the start be sure you are doing what is right for your child. Discuss it with him/her and with the school, if your child is on roll at one. You could also speak to someone at the LA, ask for the Elective Home Education Coordinator who can talk you through what home education entails. Please initially email ehecoventry@coventry.gov.uk to set up a time to discuss it. You must be able to provide the following: You will also need to consider the following as a part of planning for home education: 
  
 Informal resolution – this is normally done through the EHC Plan co-ordinator and the family, who can access support from a third-party such as the local SEND IASS. Mediation First tier SEND Tribunal  An Education, Health and Care Plan is a legal document which describes your child's difficulties and the special help that is needed to meet those difficulties. The Local Authority will carefully consider all the information collected during the assessment and we will write a Plan for your child if it is clear that agreed criteria have been met. These criteria broadly cover the level of difficulty shown by the child, and what has been done to address those difficulties. All mainstream schools are required to contribute the first £6,000 of additional educational support for a pupil from their notional SEN budget. Pupils should only require an Education, Health and Care Plan if they need support above what is ordinarily available. Find out what Coventry expects schools to put in place before a request for an EHCP. Therefore in only the most exceptional circumstances will a Plan be required to provide additional funding to the school. We will discuss the contents of the Plan with you and the school to agree how best the Plan can describe what special help is needed. We will always begin by trying to meet your child's needs in a mainstream school although in some cases it may be necessary to consider the provision available within specialist provision. If you would like more information about the arrangements for producing and reviewing Education, Health and Care Plans in Coventry you may wish to talk to your child's educational provider or to the Statutory Assessment Service. You can also ask the SEND Information, Advice and Support Service for impartial information and advice. Whilst we will try to ensure that the Education Health and Care needs assessment and/or Plan are co-produced with children, young people and their families, sometimes there may be disagreement for which a solution is difficult to find. In Coventry, we aim to find this solution in one of three ways: 
  I hope you enjoy reading about the service and that you get a sense of our core values, passion and commitment to provide the very best education and care for our pupils. I am very privileged to be the Head Teacher of such a special service and to lead an exceptional group of staff who work hard to ensure the best outcomes for all our pupils. The school provides high quality education for pupils in a safe and caring environment. Although the school is made up of three different types of provision, we work closely together and towards the same shared beliefs and values. Excellent teamwork is a strong feature across the whole service, and we maintain very positive relationships with other professional colleagues and the wider community who support us in providing care for our young people. Supporting children and their families, at what can be an incredibly worrying and stressful time, is a privilege for our team of dedicated professionals and a responsibility we take very seriously. Our motto of ‘Building Bridges to Brighter Futures’ embodies the critical role our service plays in bridging the learning gap that can often be created by a child’s injury or illness. Helping young people to regain confidence, resilience and stamina for learning lies at the heart of what we do. If you require any further information about our service after reading this website, please do not hesitate to contact us. Visitors are always welcome and we are happy to help in any way we can. Regards, University Hospital Coventry and Warwickshire,
Ward 16,
Clifford Bridge Road,
Coventry,
CV2 2DX Find out more about the Hospital School Between 20-22 Rylston Avenue,
Coventry,
CV6 2HD
024 7633 7734 Find out more about Whitmore Park Annexe Between 20-22 Rylston Avenue,
Coventry,
CV6 2HD
024 7633 7734  
  
 Dates, times and locations of Cabinet meetings and details of membership. View previous and upcoming meetings broadcast online.  The Council has a Cabinet and Scrutiny system. Each of the 10 Cabinet Members is responsible for one part of the Council’s services. The Cabinet meets every month and Cabinet Members hold individual meetings throughout the year. All these meetings are held in public. Representatives of opposition groups are allowed to attend Cabinet meetings and give their views on matters to be discussed, but are not allowed to vote. There is a maximum of four non-voting members allowed – two from the largest opposition party and then one from each of the next two. 
 2 May 2024 26 October 2023 (Earlsdon Ward by-election) 4 May 2023 22 September 2022 (Sherbourne Ward by-election) 14 July 2022 (Binley and Willenhall Ward by-election) 5 May 2022 6 May 2021 19 March 2020 (Upper Stoke Ward by-election) 5 September 2019 (Wainbody Ward by-election) 2 May 2019 3 May 2018 No local elections were held in 2017 5 May 2016 11 February 2016 (Lower Stoke by-election) 7 May 2015 22 May 2014 No local elections were held in 2013 3 May 2012 6 October 2011 (by-election) 5 May 2011 6 May 2010 No local elections were held in 2009  Coventry City Council is divided into 18 wards each with three Councillors. Councillors are elected by a simple majority - whoever gets the most votes - and serve for four years at a time. Elections are held in three years out of four. Local elections are usually held on the first Thursday in May. But this date may vary, so that local elections are held on the same day as a Parliamentary election. 
  
 A suitable education A full-time education An efficient education Opportunities to socialise with other children and build friendships. This could be done through social activities or clubs based on your child's hobbies and interests. Space at home where learning can take place The time - parents who are in employment will have to determine if they can accommodate a full-time education as well as work commitments. What are your child's aspirations? Will your home education take steps towards achieving this? Does your child want to sit any examinations? This can be done but please keep in mind it can be costly as a private pupil. If you want to home educate, once you come off the roll of a school, your place will be allocated to someone on the waiting list. If you want to go back into schools you will need to apply through the admissions process. Please be aware, that there may not be places available at the school you apply for so you may not get the school of your choice.  Families who elect to home educate do so for a variety of reasons. The decision to home educate should not be taken lightly. It can be very rewarding to educate your child at home but it does require a serious time commitment, patience, energy and the ability to provide appropriate motivation, resources and equipment. You will need to decide if you have the skills and ability to educate your child or if you will need to purchase services to help you do this e.g. online learning packages or tutors. Please keep in mind there is no financial support available when you home educate. In addition, if your child receives free school meals or pupil premium support, this will not apply when home educated and will be lost. You will also lose entitlement to attend HAF programme events. From the start be sure you are doing what is right for your child. Discuss it with him/her and with the school, if your child is on roll at one. You could also speak to someone at the LA, ask for the Elective Home Education Coordinator who can talk you through what home education entails. Please initially email ehecoventry@coventry.gov.uk to set up a time to discuss it. You must be able to provide the following: You will also need to consider the following as a part of planning for home education: 
 Elections to the Council are held in three out of every four years. Coventry is split into 18 wards, with three councillors in each one. Each councillor is elected by a simple majority - whoever gets the most votes - and is then on the Council for four years. Councillors speak for the people in their area, listening to their problems and helping to improve their areas. Councillors also attend meetings at the Council House in the centre of the city, and speak up for their area. They also decide how the Council spends its money and what the most important things are for the Council and the city. A British citizen or a citizen of the Commonwealth or European Union At least 18 years old Registered to vote in the area, or have lived, worked, or owned property there for at least 12 months before an election Work for the council you want to be a councillor for, or for another local authority in a politically restricted post Are the subject of a bankruptcy restrictions order or interim order Have been sentenced to prison for three months or more (including suspended sentences) during the five years before election day Have been convicted of a corrupt or illegal practice by an election court  If you want to help make things better in the city, represent local people, and play a part in Coventry's future, you should become a city councillor. For more information on becoming a councillor or who can stand please read the details below. The easy answer is almost anyone, as long as you are: You can't be a councillor if you: Over 95 per cent of councillors are members of political parties, but you don't have to be a member of a political party to be a councillor. You can stand as an independent candidate, or as a group or party political candidate. Councillors do not receive a salary, however they do get a 'member's allowance'. These rates are set by each individual council. You can be a councillor and still have a job. Your employer is required by law to allow you to take a reasonable amount of time off work to perform your duties as a councillor. Before making a commitment to stand as councillor you should discuss this with your employer. More information about becoming a councillor on GOV.UK. More advice and guidance can be found on the Electoral Commission website. 
 If you're not registered, you can't vote. You'll miss your chance to elect Councillors, MPs and others that represent you. Credit checks - credit referencing companies use the Register when checking if a person has a good credit rating. If you are not listed on the Register, you may have difficulty opening a bank account, applying for a loan, credit card or mortgage. Jury Service - the Register of Electors is used to call people for Jury Service. There is evidence that fewer young people and people from ethnic minorities register to vote with the result that they are under-represented in the judicial system. It's the law - there is a maximum £1,000 fine for individuals who refuse to register, and a maximum £5,000 fine for individuals who provide false information.  You can find out how to register to vote or more information on registering to vote at www.gov.uk/registertovote You will need to provide 'identifying information', such as your date of birth and national insurance number when applying and your application will need to be verified with Government records before you are added to the register.  If your details are not matched then you may be asked to provide an alternative form of evidence to prove your identity (for example a Passport, Photo Driving Licence, Biometric Residence Permit or National Identity Card).  If you have the facility to scan documents, then we do accept a clear scanned copy and it can be emailed to electoral.services@coventry.gov.uk. You can register to vote by phone, you will need your national insurance number, you can also register within 5 minutes at www.gov.uk/registertovote A National Insurance number is a reference number used by government.  The easiest place to find your National Insurance number is on official paperwork, such as your National Insurance card, payslips or letters from the Department of Work and Pensions or HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC). If you are still unable to find your National Insurance Number go to Find a lost National Insurance number. You can also use the free HMRC app which provides a quick and easy way to check your national insurance number. If you haven’t been given a national insurance number, you will need to provide a reason when applying. We will then contact you to provide evidence as to your identity. This is usually a photocopy or scanned image of your driving licence or passport. Everybody needs to register themselves to vote.  It is straightforward and quick, you can register at www.gov.uk/registertovote.  If you are unable to register yourself, it’s ok to get help filling in the details, but you must make the declaration yourself. In certain circumstances, someone who has been granted appropriate power of attorney may be able to make the declaration on your behalf. If you need any further assistance with this you can contact a member of the team on 024 7683 3034. If you do not know your actual date of birth, you may have been given an official one in the past and this can be used to register to vote.  This can be found on paperwork including a passport, adoption certificate, driving licence or naturalisation certificate. If you do not have one, you will need to explain why you are unable to provide it on your application to register and indicate if you are under 18 years old.  If you have received a letter telling you that you are registered to vote you do not need to do anything. You will receive a poll card before the next elections. Once you’re registered, you don’t need to register again unless your circumstances change, for example, if you change address. We will contact you every year (usually between July and November) to find out if there have been any changes to who is living at your address. You should also inform us if any of your details (such as your name) change. You can contact our Electoral Services department by using the contact details below. Please note that if you're emailing us we'll need your full name and address to check this for you. View the Privacy Notice. View the Retention, Storage and disposal of documents. 
 Chargepoint and infrastructure grant for business staff and fleet car parks Workplace Charging Scheme  The majority of charging your vehicle will be done at home, usually overnight. If you have a driveway or garage, the cheapest and most convenient way is to install a dedicated chargepoint. The Office for Zero Emission Vehicles (OZEV)’s EV chargepoint grant, is available to owner/occupiers of flats and renters of residential property with off-street parking. Landlords can apply for the EV chargepoint grant for landlords. Both of these cover up to 75% of the costs of installing a home chargepoint, up to a limit of £350. Also available for private or social landlords is the EV infrastructure grant for residential car parks that can help fund the installation of cabling for EV chargepoints. For more details on the grants available see OZEV electric vehicle chargepoint and infrastructure grants While you can use a regular UK three-pin socket, it is much slower than a dedicated chargepoint and may involve running charging cables from inside your home. These cables do not have as many safety features as a type 2 cable, and should not be used as a long-term solution for home charging. Don’t have access to off-street parking? Coventry have deployed a network of on-street residential charging stations. View the interactive map of Coventry’s on-street residential charging stations to find one near you. It is highly convenient to charge at work, because, much like charging at home, your car is often parked for an extended period during the day. Many organisations are now installing charging stations for staff and visitors as a perk, for sustainability reasons or to facilitate the switch to an electric fleet. To help towards the cost of installing an EV chargepoint socket at your workplace, the following grants are available The EV infrastructure grant for staff and fleets, helps small and medium sized businesses install the infrastructure they need for chargepoints. 
 support the emergency service and supply resources where required, within the remit of the local authority. provide and manage emergency accommodation - a number of buildings in Coventry are ear marked for this purpose assist in the transportation of members of the public who might have to be moved away from an incident provide catering, welfare and support to those evacuated mobilise the voluntary agencies and co-ordinate their response lead the recovery and return to normality maintain the local authority day-to-day services at an appropriate level  Coventry City Council's Emergency Planning function is undertaken by the Coventry, Solihull & Warwickshire Resilience Team, you can find out more about the work of the team, including the types of emergencies that they plan for and how you can be better prepared for such events on the CSW Team website. If a major incident occurs the first people to become aware of it will usually be the 'blue light' emergency services. West Midlands Police, West Midlands Fire Service, and West Midlands Ambulance Service will inform the CSW Resilience team. The team will initiate the Council's emergency response. We will: 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  